entergy corporation and subsidiaries notes to financial statements ( a ) consists of pollution control revenue bonds and environmental revenue bonds , some of which are secured by collateral first mortgage bonds .
( b ) these notes do not have a stated interest rate , but have an implicit interest rate of 4.8% ( 4.8 % ) .
( c ) pursuant to the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 , entergy 2019s nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries have contracts with the doe for spent nuclear fuel disposal service .
the contracts include a one-time fee for generation prior to april 7 , 1983 .
entergy arkansas is the only entergy company that generated electric power with nuclear fuel prior to that date and includes the one-time fee , plus accrued interest , in long-term debt .
( d ) see note 10 to the financial statements for further discussion of the waterford 3 and grand gulf lease obligations .
( e ) the fair value excludes lease obligations of $ 109 million at entergy louisiana and $ 34 million at system energy , long-term doe obligations of $ 181 million at entergy arkansas , and the note payable to nypa of $ 35 million at entergy , and includes debt due within one year .
fair values are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy discussed in note 16 to the financial statements and are based on prices derived from inputs such as benchmark yields and reported trades .
the annual long-term debt maturities ( excluding lease obligations and long-term doe obligations ) for debt outstanding as of december 31 , 2015 , for the next five years are as follows : amount ( in thousands ) .
in november 2000 , entergy 2019s non-utility nuclear business purchased the fitzpatrick and indian point 3 power plants in a seller-financed transaction .
entergy issued notes to nypa with seven annual installments of approximately $ 108 million commencing one year from the date of the closing , and eight annual installments of $ 20 million commencing eight years from the date of the closing .
these notes do not have a stated interest rate , but have an implicit interest rate of 4.8% ( 4.8 % ) .
in accordance with the purchase agreement with nypa , the purchase of indian point 2 in 2001 resulted in entergy becoming liable to nypa for an additional $ 10 million per year for 10 years , beginning in september 2003 .
this liability was recorded upon the purchase of indian point 2 in september 2001 .
as part of the purchase agreement with nypa , entergy recorded a liability representing the net present value of the payments entergy would be liable to nypa for each year that the fitzpatrick and indian point 3 power plants would run beyond their respective original nrc license expiration date .
with the planned shutdown of fitzpatrick at the end of its current fuel cycle , entergy reduced this liability by $ 26.4 million in 2015 pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement .
under a provision in a letter of credit supporting these notes , if certain of the utility operating companies or system energy were to default on other indebtedness , entergy could be required to post collateral to support the letter of credit .
entergy louisiana , entergy mississippi , entergy texas , and system energy have obtained long-term financing authorizations from the ferc that extend through october 2017 .
entergy arkansas has obtained long-term financing authorization from the apsc that extends through december 2018 .
entergy new orleans has obtained long-term financing authorization from the city council that extends through july 2016 .
capital funds agreement pursuant to an agreement with certain creditors , entergy corporation has agreed to supply system energy with sufficient capital to: .
