addition , we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on transactions generated by our international subsidiaries in currencies other than their local currencies .
these gains and losses are primarily driven by inter-company transactions .
these exposures are included in other income ( expense ) , net on the consolidated statements of income .
since 2007 , we have used foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the risk from exchange rate fluctuations on inter-company transactions and projected inventory purchases for our canadian subsidiary .
beginning in december 2008 , we began using foreign currency forward contracts in order to reduce the risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on inter-company transactions for our european subsidiary .
we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes .
based on the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of december 31 , 2009 , we receive us dollars in exchange for canadian dollars at a weighted average contractual forward foreign currency exchange rate of 1.04 cad per $ 1.00 and us dollars in exchange for euros at a weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rate of 0.70 eur per $ 1.00 .
as of december 31 , 2009 , the notional value of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts for our canadian subsidiary was $ 15.4 million with contract maturities of 1 month , and the notional value of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts for our european subsidiary was $ 56.0 million with contract maturities of 1 month .
the foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as cash flow hedges , and accordingly , changes in their fair value are recorded in other income ( expense ) , net on the consolidated statements of income .
the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts was $ 0.3 million and $ 1.2 million as of december 31 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively .
these amounts are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet .
refer to note 9 for a discussion of the fair value measurements .
other income ( expense ) , net included the following amounts related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and derivative foreign currency forward contracts: .
although we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on future cash flows , we cannot be assured that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations .
inflation inflationary factors such as increases in the cost of our product and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results .
although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations to date , a high rate of inflation in the future may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain current levels of gross margin and selling , general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues if the selling prices of our products do not increase with these increased costs. .
