republic services , inc .
notes to consolidated financial statements 2014 ( continued ) 16 .
financial instruments fuel hedges we have entered into multiple swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to mitigate some of our exposure related to changes in diesel fuel prices .
these swaps qualified for , and were designated as , effective hedges of changes in the prices of forecasted diesel fuel purchases ( fuel hedges ) .
the following table summarizes our outstanding fuel hedges as of december 31 , 2016 : year gallons hedged weighted average contract price per gallon .
if the national u.s .
on-highway average price for a gallon of diesel fuel as published by the department of energy exceeds the contract price per gallon , we receive the difference between the average price and the contract price ( multiplied by the notional gallons ) from the counterparty .
if the average price is less than the contract price per gallon , we pay the difference to the counterparty .
the fair values of our fuel hedges are determined using standard option valuation models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets ( level 2 in the fair value hierarchy ) .
the aggregate fair values of our outstanding fuel hedges as of december 31 , 2016 and 2015 were current liabilities of $ 2.7 million and $ 37.8 million , respectively , and have been recorded in other accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets .
the ineffective portions of the changes in fair values resulted in a gain of $ 0.8 million for the year ended december 31 , 2016 , and a loss of $ 0.4 million and $ 0.5 million for the years ended december 31 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively , and have been recorded in other income , net in our consolidated statements of income .
total gain ( loss ) recognized in other comprehensive income ( loss ) for fuel hedges ( the effective portion ) was $ 20.7 million , $ ( 2.0 ) million and $ ( 24.2 ) million , for the years ended december 31 , 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively .
we classify cash inflows and outflows from our fuel hedges within operating activities in the unaudited consolidated statements of cash flows .
recycling commodity hedges revenue from the sale of recycled commodities is primarily from sales of old corrugated containers and old newsprint .
from time to time we use derivative instruments such as swaps and costless collars designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in prices of these commodities .
during 2016 , we entered into multiple agreements related to the forecasted occ sales .
the agreements qualified for , and were designated as , effective hedges of changes in the prices of certain forecasted recycling commodity sales ( commodity hedges ) .
we entered into costless collar agreements on forecasted sales of occ .
the agreements involve combining a purchased put option giving us the right to sell occ at an established floor strike price with a written call option obligating us to deliver occ at an established cap strike price .
the puts and calls have the same settlement dates , are net settled in cash on such dates and have the same terms to expiration .
the contemporaneous combination of options resulted in no net premium for us and represents costless collars .
under these agreements , we will make or receive no payments as long as the settlement price is between the floor price and cap price ; however , if the settlement price is above the cap , we will pay the counterparty an amount equal to the excess of the settlement price over the cap times the monthly volumes hedged .
if the settlement price is below the floor , the counterparty will pay us the deficit of the settlement price below the floor times the monthly volumes hedged .
the objective of these agreements is to reduce variability of cash flows for forecasted sales of occ between two designated strike prices. .
