judgments the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets depends on a number of factors , including estimates of future market growth and trends , forecasted revenue and costs , expected useful lives of the assets , appropriate discount rates and other variables .
goodwill is allocated to reporting units , which are components of the business that are one level below operating segments .
each of these reporting units is tested for impairment individually during the annual evaluation .
there is no goodwill assigned to reporting units within the balance sheet management segment .
the following table shows the amount of goodwill allocated to each of the reporting units in the trading and investing segment ( dollars in millions ) : .
in connection with our annual impairment test of goodwill , we concluded that the goodwill was not impaired as the fair value of the reporting units was in excess of the book value of those reporting units as of december 31 , 2011 .
the fair value of the reporting units exceeded the book value of those reporting units by substantial amounts ( fair value as a percent of book value ranged from approximately 150% ( 150 % ) to 700% ( 700 % ) ) and therefore did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations .
we also evaluate the remaining useful lives on intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization .
effects if actual results differ if our estimates of fair value for the reporting units change due to changes in our business or other factors , we may determine that an impairment charge is necessary .
estimates of fair value are determined based on a complex model using cash flows and company comparisons .
if management 2019s estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate , the fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment would not be recognized in a timely manner .
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives .
if changes in the estimated underlying revenue occur , impairment or a change in the remaining life may need to be recognized. .
