included in the corporate and consumer loan tables above are purchased distressed loans , which are loans that have evidenced significant credit deterioration subsequent to origination but prior to acquisition by citigroup .
in accordance with sop 03-3 , the difference between the total expected cash flows for these loans and the initial recorded investments is recognized in income over the life of the loans using a level yield .
accordingly , these loans have been excluded from the impaired loan information presented above .
in addition , per sop 03-3 , subsequent decreases to the expected cash flows for a purchased distressed loan require a build of an allowance so the loan retains its level yield .
however , increases in the expected cash flows are first recognized as a reduction of any previously established allowance and then recognized as income prospectively over the remaining life of the loan by increasing the loan 2019s level yield .
where the expected cash flows cannot be reliably estimated , the purchased distressed loan is accounted for under the cost recovery method .
the carrying amount of the company 2019s purchased distressed loan portfolio at december 31 , 2010 was $ 392 million , net of an allowance of $ 77 million as of december 31 , 2010 .
the changes in the accretable yield , related allowance and carrying amount net of accretable yield for 2010 are as follows : in millions of dollars accretable carrying amount of loan receivable allowance .
( 1 ) the balance reported in the column 201ccarrying amount of loan receivable 201d consists of $ 130 million of purchased loans accounted for under the level-yield method and $ 0 under the cost-recovery method .
these balances represent the fair value of these loans at their acquisition date .
the related total expected cash flows for the level-yield loans were $ 131 million at their acquisition dates .
( 2 ) the balance reported in the column 201ccarrying amount of loan receivable 201d consists of $ 315 million of loans accounted for under the level-yield method and $ 154 million accounted for under the cost-recovery method. .
