item 1b .
unresolved staff comments not applicable .
item 2 .
properties as of december 28 , 2013 , our major facilities consisted of : ( square feet in millions ) united states countries total owned facilities1 29.9 16.7 46.6 leased facilities2 2.3 6.0 8.3 .
1 leases on portions of the land used for these facilities expire on varying dates through 2062 .
2 leases expire on varying dates through 2028 and generally include renewals at our option .
our principal executive offices are located in the u.s .
and a significant amount of our wafer fabrication activities are also located in the u.s .
in addition to our current facilities , we are building a development fabrication facility in oregon which began r&d start-up in 2013 .
we expect that this new facility will allow us to widen our process technology lead .
we also completed construction of a large-scale fabrication building in arizona in 2013 , which is currently not in use and is not being depreciated .
we recently announced that we plan to delay equipment installation in this building and leverage existing fabrication facilities , reserving this new facility for additional capacity and future technologies .
outside the u.s. , we have wafer fabrication facilities in israel , china , and ireland .
our fabrication facility in ireland is currently transitioning to a newer process technology node , with manufacturing expected to recommence in 2015 .
our assembly and test facilities are located in malaysia , china , costa rica , and vietnam .
in addition , we have sales and marketing offices worldwide that are generally located near major concentrations of customers .
we believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and that the productive capacity in our facilities is substantially being utilized or we have plans to utilize it .
we do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment .
for information on net property , plant and equipment by country , see 201cnote 27 : operating segments and geographic information 201d in part ii , item 8 of this form 10-k .
item 3 .
legal proceedings for a discussion of legal proceedings , see 201cnote 26 : contingencies 201d in part ii , item 8 of this form 10-k .
item 4 .
mine safety disclosures not applicable .
table of contents .
