will continue to seek recovery from our customers through our fuel surcharge programs and expand our fuel conservation efforts .
2022 capital plan 2013 in 2009 , we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $ 2.8 billion ( which may be revised if business conditions or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments ) .
see further discussion in this item 7 under liquidity and capital resources 2013 capital plan .
2022 financial expectations 2013 we are cautious about the economic environment ; however , we anticipate continued pricing opportunities , network improvement , and increased productivity in 2009 .
results of operations operating revenues millions of dollars 2008 2007 2006 % (  % ) change 2008 v 2007 % (  % ) change 2007 v 2006 .
freight revenues are revenues generated by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups .
freight revenues vary with volume ( carloads ) and average revenue per car ( arc ) .
arc is driven by changes in price , traffic mix and fuel surcharges .
as a result of contractual obligations with some of our customers , we have provided incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations , which we record as a reduction to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments .
we recognize freight revenues on a percentage-of- completion basis as freight moves from origin to destination .
we allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them .
other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries , revenues from our commuter rail operations , and accessorial revenues , which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage .
we recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations .
freight revenues from five of the six commodity groups increased during 2008 , with particularly strong growth from agricultural and energy shipments .
while revenues generated from chemical and industrial products shipments grew in 2008 compared to 2007 , hurricanes gustav and ike reduced shipments of these commodities .
revenues generated from automotive shipments declined versus 2007 .
greater fuel cost recoveries and core pricing improvement combined to increase arc during 2008 .
fuel cost recoveries include fuel surcharge revenue and the impact of resetting the base fuel price for certain traffic , as described below in more detail .
the severe economic downturn during the fourth quarter compounded already declining volumes experienced during the first nine months of 2008 due to ongoing weakness in certain market sectors .
as a result , we moved fewer intermodal , automotive , industrial products , and chemical shipments , which more than offset volume growth from agricultural and energy shipments .
our fuel surcharge programs ( excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel ) generated $ 2.3 billion in freight revenues during 2008 .
fuel surcharge revenue is not comparable to prior periods due to the implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs beginning in april 2007 for regulated traffic .
as previously disclosed in our 2006 annual report on form 10-k , the stb .
