zimmer biomet holdings , inc .
and subsidiaries 2017 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) year ended december 31 , 2017 compared to what it would have been under the previous accounting rules .
in may 2014 , the fasb issued asu 2014-09 2013 revenue from contracts with customers ( topic 606 ) .
this asu provides a five-step model for revenue recognition that all industries will apply to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a good or service .
this asu will be effective for us beginning january 1 , 2018 .
entities are permitted to apply the standard and related amendments either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the asu recognized at the date of initial application .
we have completed our assessment of this asu .
based upon our assessment , there will not be a material change to the timing of our revenue recognition .
however , we will be required to reclassify certain immaterial costs from selling , general and administrative ( 201csg&a 201d ) expense to net sales , which will result in a reduction of net sales , but have no impact on operating profit .
we will adopt this new standard using the retrospective method , which will result in us restating prior reporting periods presented .
in march 2017 , the fasb issued asu 2017-07 2013 improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost .
this asu requires us to report the service cost component of pensions in the same location as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period .
we will be required to report the other components of net benefit costs in other income ( expense ) in the statement of earnings .
this asu will be effective for us beginning january 1 , 2018 .
the asu must be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost in the statement of earnings and prospectively , on and after the effective date , for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost in assets .
see note 14 for further information on the components of our net benefit cost .
in february 2016 , the fasb issued asu 2016-02 2013 leases .
this asu requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet .
this asu will be effective for us beginning january 1 , 2019 .
early adoption is permitted .
based on current guidance , this asu must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition approach at the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the consolidated financial statements .
we own most of our manufacturing facilities , but lease various office space and other less significant assets throughout the world .
we have formed our project team and have begun a process to collect the necessary information to implement this asu .
we will continue evaluating our leases and the related impact this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements throughout 2018 .
in august 2017 , the fasb issued asu 2017-12 2013 targeted improvements to accounting for hedging activities .
this asu amends the hedge accounting guidance to simplify the application of hedge accounting , makes more financial and nonfinancial hedging strategies eligible for hedge accounting treatment , changes how companies assess effectiveness and updates presentation and disclosure requirements .
we are currently evaluating the impact this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements ; however , based on our current hedging portfolio , we do not anticipate that this asu will have a significant impact on our financial position , results of operations or cash flows .
this asu will be effective for us january 1 , 2019 , with early adoption permitted .
after adoption , we may explore new hedging opportunities that are eligible for hedge accounting treatment under the new standard .
there are no other recently issued accounting pronouncements that we have not yet adopted that are expected to have a material effect on our financial position , results of operations or cash flows .
3 .
business combinations biomet merger we completed our merger with lvb , the parent company of biomet , on june 24 , 2015 .
we paid $ 12030.3 million in cash and stock and assumed biomet 2019s senior notes .
the total amount of merger consideration utilized for the acquisition method of accounting , as reduced by the merger consideration paid to holders of unvested lvb stock options and lvb stock- based awards of $ 90.4 million , was $ 11939.9 million .
the following table sets forth unaudited pro forma financial information derived from ( i ) the audited financial statements of zimmer for the year ended december 31 , 2015 ; and ( ii ) the unaudited financial statements of lvb for the period january 1 , 2015 to june 23 , 2015 .
the pro forma financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the merger as if it had occurred on january 1 , 2014 .
pro forma financial information ( unaudited ) year ended december 31 , 2015 ( in millions ) .
these unaudited pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and include adjustments such as inventory step-up , amortization of acquired intangible assets and interest expense on debt incurred to finance the merger .
material , nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the biomet merger include : 2022 the $ 90.4 million of merger compensation expense for unvested lvb stock options and lvb stock-based awards was removed from net earnings for the year ended december 31 , 2015 and recognized as an expense in the year ended december 31 , 2014 .
2022 the $ 73.0 million of retention plan expense was removed from net earnings for the year ended december 31 , 2015 and .
