item 1b .
unresolved staff comments .
item 2 .
properties .
our corporate co-headquarters are located in pittsburgh , pennsylvania and chicago , illinois .
our co-headquarters are leased and house our executive offices , certain u.s .
business units , and our administrative , finance , and human resource functions .
we maintain additional owned and leased offices throughout the regions in which we operate .
we manufacture our products in our network of manufacturing and processing facilities located throughout the world .
as of december 31 , 2016 , we operated 87 manufacturing and processing facilities .
we own 83 and lease four of these facilities .
our manufacturing and processing facilities count by segment as of december 31 , 2016 was: .
we maintain all of our manufacturing and processing facilities in good condition and believe they are suitable and are adequate for our present needs .
we also enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with third parties if we determine it is advantageous to outsource the production of any of our products .
in the fourth quarter of 2016 , we reorganized our segment structure to move our russia business from the rest of world segment to the europe segment .
we have reflected this change in the table above .
see note 18 , segment reporting , to the consolidated financial statements for additional information .
several of our current manufacturing and processing facilities are scheduled to be closed within the next year .
see note 3 , integration and restructuring expenses , to the consolidated financial statements for additional information .
item 3 .
legal proceedings .
we are routinely involved in legal proceedings , claims , and governmental inquiries , inspections or investigations ( 201clegal matters 201d ) arising in the ordinary course of our business .
on april 1 , 2015 , the commodity futures trading commission ( 201ccftc 201d ) filed a formal complaint against mondel 0113z international ( formerly known as kraft foods inc. ) and kraft in the u.s .
district court for the northern district of illinois , eastern division , related to activities involving the trading of december 2011 wheat futures contracts .
the complaint alleges that mondel 0113z international and kraft ( 1 ) manipulated or attempted to manipulate the wheat markets during the fall of 2011 , ( 2 ) violated position limit levels for wheat futures , and ( 3 ) engaged in non-competitive trades by trading both sides of exchange-for-physical chicago board of trade wheat contracts .
as previously disclosed by kraft , these activities arose prior to the october 1 , 2012 spin-off of kraft by mondel 0113z international to its shareholders and involve the business now owned and operated by mondel 0113z international or its affiliates .
the separation and distribution agreement between kraft and mondel 0113z international , dated as of september 27 , 2012 , governs the allocation of liabilities between mondel 0113z international and kraft and , accordingly , mondel 0113z international will predominantly bear the costs of this matter and any monetary penalties or other payments that the cftc may impose .
we do not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition , results of operations , or business .
while we cannot predict with certainty the results of legal matters in which we are currently involved or may in the future be involved , we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve any of the legal matters that are currently pending will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations .
item 4 .
mine safety disclosures .
not applicable. .
