entergy corporation notes to consolidated financial statements ( d ) the bonds are subject to mandatory tender for purchase from the holders at 100% ( 100 % ) of the principal amount outstanding on october 1 , 2003 and will then be remarketed .
( e ) on june 1 , 2002 , entergy louisiana remarketed $ 55 million st .
charles parish pollution control revenue refunding bonds due 2030 , resetting the interest rate to 4.9% ( 4.9 % ) through may 2005 .
( f ) the bonds are subject to mandatory tender for purchase from the holders at 100% ( 100 % ) of the principal amount outstanding on june 1 , 2005 and will then be remarketed .
( g ) the fair value excludes lease obligations , long-term doe obligations , and other long-term debt and includes debt due within one year .
it is determined using bid prices reported by dealer markets and by nationally recognized investment banking firms .
the annual long-term debt maturities ( excluding lease obligations ) and annual cash sinking fund requirements for debt outstanding as of december 31 , 2002 , for the next five years are as follows ( in thousands ) : .
not included are other sinking fund requirements of approximately $ 30.2 million annually , which may be satisfied by cash or by certification of property additions at the rate of 167% ( 167 % ) of such requirements .
in december 2002 , when the damhead creek project was sold , the buyer of the project assumed all obligations under the damhead creek credit facilities and the damhead creek interest rate swap agreements .
in november 2000 , entergy's non-utility nuclear business purchased the fitzpatrick and indian point 3 power plants in a seller-financed transaction .
entergy issued notes to nypa with seven annual installments of approximately $ 108 million commencing one year from the date of the closing , and eight annual installments of $ 20 million commencing eight years from the date of the closing .
these notes do not have a stated interest rate , but have an implicit interest rate of 4.8% ( 4.8 % ) .
in accordance with the purchase agreement with nypa , the purchase of indian point 2 resulted in entergy's non-utility nuclear business becoming liable to nypa for an additional $ 10 million per year for 10 years , beginning in september 2003 .
this liability was recorded upon the purchase of indian point 2 in september 2001 .
covenants in the entergy corporation 7.75% ( 7.75 % ) notes require it to maintain a consolidated debt ratio of 65% ( 65 % ) or less of its total capitalization .
if entergy's debt ratio exceeds this limit , or if entergy or certain of the domestic utility companies default on other credit facilities or are in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings , an acceleration of the facility's maturity may occur .
in january 2003 , entergy paid in full , at maturity , the outstanding debt relating to the top of iowa wind project .
capital funds agreement pursuant to an agreement with certain creditors , entergy corporation has agreed to supply system energy with sufficient capital to : fffd maintain system energy's equity capital at a minimum of 35% ( 35 % ) of its total capitalization ( excluding short-term debt ) ; fffd permit the continued commercial operation of grand gulf 1 ; fffd pay in full all system energy indebtedness for borrowed money when due ; and fffd enable system energy to make payments on specific system energy debt , under supplements to the agreement assigning system energy's rights in the agreement as security for the specific debt. .
