the goldman sachs group , inc .
and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements in the tables above : 2030 the gross fair values exclude the effects of both counterparty netting and collateral netting , and therefore are not representative of the firm 2019s exposure .
2030 counterparty netting is reflected in each level to the extent that receivable and payable balances are netted within the same level and is included in counterparty netting in levels .
where the counterparty netting is across levels , the netting is included in cross-level counterparty netting .
2030 derivative assets are shown as positive amounts and derivative liabilities are shown as negative amounts .
significant unobservable inputs the table below presents the amount of level 3 assets ( liabilities ) , and ranges , averages and medians of significant unobservable inputs used to value the firm 2019s level 3 derivatives .
level 3 assets ( liabilities ) and range of significant unobservable inputs ( average/median ) as of december $ in millions 2017 2016 .
in the table above : 2030 derivative assets are shown as positive amounts and derivative liabilities are shown as negative amounts .
2030 ranges represent the significant unobservable inputs that were used in the valuation of each type of derivative .
2030 averages represent the arithmetic average of the inputs and are not weighted by the relative fair value or notional of the respective financial instruments .
an average greater than the median indicates that the majority of inputs are below the average .
for example , the difference between the average and the median for credit spreads and oil spread inputs indicates that the majority of the inputs fall in the lower end of the range .
2030 the ranges , averages and medians of these inputs are not representative of the appropriate inputs to use when calculating the fair value of any one derivative .
for example , the highest correlation for interest rate derivatives is appropriate for valuing a specific interest rate derivative but may not be appropriate for valuing any other interest rate derivative .
accordingly , the ranges of inputs do not represent uncertainty in , or possible ranges of , fair value measurements of the firm 2019s level 3 derivatives .
2030 interest rates , currencies and equities derivatives are valued using option pricing models , credit derivatives are valued using option pricing , correlation and discounted cash flow models , and commodities derivatives are valued using option pricing and discounted cash flow models .
2030 the fair value of any one instrument may be determined using multiple valuation techniques .
for example , option pricing models and discounted cash flows models are typically used together to determine fair value .
therefore , the level 3 balance encompasses both of these techniques .
2030 correlation within currencies and equities includes cross- product type correlation .
2030 natural gas spread represents the spread per million british thermal units of natural gas .
2030 oil spread represents the spread per barrel of oil and refined products .
range of significant unobservable inputs the following is information about the ranges of significant unobservable inputs used to value the firm 2019s level 3 derivative instruments : 2030 correlation .
ranges for correlation cover a variety of underliers both within one product type ( e.g. , equity index and equity single stock names ) and across product types ( e.g. , correlation of an interest rate and a currency ) , as well as across regions .
generally , cross-product type correlation inputs are used to value more complex instruments and are lower than correlation inputs on assets within the same derivative product type .
2030 volatility .
ranges for volatility cover numerous underliers across a variety of markets , maturities and strike prices .
for example , volatility of equity indices is generally lower than volatility of single stocks .
2030 credit spreads , upfront credit points and recovery rates .
the ranges for credit spreads , upfront credit points and recovery rates cover a variety of underliers ( index and single names ) , regions , sectors , maturities and credit qualities ( high-yield and investment-grade ) .
the broad range of this population gives rise to the width of the ranges of significant unobservable inputs .
130 goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k .
