table of contents tceq and harris county pollution control services department ( hcpcs ) ( houston terminal ) .
we have an outstanding noe from the tceq and an outstanding vn from the hcpcs alleging excess emissions from tank 003 that occurred during hurricane harvey .
we are working with the pertinent authorities to resolve these matters .
item 4 .
mine safety disclosures part ii item 5 .
market for registrant 2019s common equity , related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock trades on the nyse under the trading symbol 201cvlo . 201d as of january 31 , 2019 , there were 5271 holders of record of our common stock .
dividends are considered quarterly by the board of directors , may be paid only when approved by the board , and will depend on our financial condition , results of operations , cash flows , prospects , industry conditions , capital requirements , and other factors and restrictions our board deems relevant .
there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend at the rates we have paid historically , or at all , in the future .
the following table discloses purchases of shares of our common stock made by us or on our behalf during the fourth quarter of 2018 .
period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares not purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs ( a ) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs ( b ) .
( a ) the shares reported in this column represent purchases settled in the fourth quarter of 2018 relating to ( i ) our purchases of shares in open-market transactions to meet our obligations under stock-based compensation plans and ( ii ) our purchases of shares from our employees and non-employee directors in connection with the exercise of stock options , the vesting of restricted stock , and other stock compensation transactions in accordance with the terms of our stock-based compensation plans .
( b ) on january 23 , 2018 , we announced that our board of directors authorized our purchase of up to $ 2.5 billion of our outstanding common stock ( the 2018 program ) , with no expiration date , which was in addition to the remaining amount available under a $ 2.5 billion program authorized on september 21 , 2016 ( the 2016 program ) .
during the fourth quarter of 2018 , we completed our purchases under the 2016 program .
as of december 31 , 2018 , we had $ 2.2 billion remaining available for purchase under the 2018 program. .
