note 2 2013 restructuring charges 2013 actions during 2013 , we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $ 201 million , net of state tax benefits , of which $ 83 million , $ 37 million , and $ 81 million related to our information systems & global solutions ( is&gs ) , mission systems and training ( mst ) , and space systems business segments .
these charges reduced our net earnings by $ 130 million ( $ .40 per share ) and primarily related to a plan we committed to in november 2013 to close and consolidate certain facilities and reduce our total workforce by approximately 4000 positions within our is&gs , mst , and space systems business segments .
these charges also include $ 30 million related to certain severance actions at our is&gs business segment that occurred in the first quarter of 2013 , which were subsequently paid in 2013 .
the november 2013 plan resulted from a strategic review of these businesses 2019 facility capacity and future workload projections and is intended to better align our organization and cost structure and improve the affordability of our products and services given the continued decline in u.s .
government spending as well as the rapidly changing competitive and economic landscape .
upon separation , terminated employees will receive lump-sum severance payments primarily based on years of service .
during 2013 , we paid approximately $ 15 million in severance payments associated with these actions , with the remainder expected to be paid through the middle of 2015 .
in addition to the severance charges described above , we expect to incur accelerated and incremental costs ( e.g. , accelerated depreciation expense related to long-lived assets at the sites to be closed , relocation of equipment and other employee related costs ) of approximately $ 15 million , $ 50 million , and $ 135 million at our is&gs , mst , and space systems business segments related to the facility closures and consolidations .
the accelerated and incremental costs will be expensed as incurred in the respective business segment 2019s results of operations through their completion in 2015 .
we expect to recover a substantial amount of the restructuring charges through the pricing of our products and services to the u.s .
government and other customers in future periods , with the impact included in the respective business segment 2019s results of operations .
2012 and 2011 actions during 2012 , we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $ 48 million , net of state tax benefits , of which $ 25 million related to our aeronautics business segment and $ 23 million related to the reorganization of our former electronic systems business segment .
these charges reduced our net earnings by $ 31 million ( $ .09 per share ) and consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions through either voluntary or involuntary actions .
these severance actions resulted from cost reduction initiatives to better align our organization with changing economic conditions .
upon separation , terminated employees received lump-sum severance payments primarily based on years of service , all of which were paid in 2013 .
during 2011 , we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $ 136 million , net of state tax benefits , of which $ 49 million , $ 48 million , and $ 39 million related to our aeronautics , space systems , and our is&gs business segments and corporate headquarters .
these charges reduced our net earnings by $ 88 million ( $ .26 per share ) and consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions through either voluntary or involuntary actions .
these severance actions resulted from a strategic review of these businesses and our corporate headquarters and are intended to better align our organization and cost structure with changing economic conditions .
the workforce reductions at the business segments also reflected changes in program lifecycles , where several of our major programs were either transitioning out of development and into production or were ending .
upon separation , terminated employees received lump-sum severance payments based on years of service .
during 2011 , we made approximately half of the severance payments associated with these 2011 severance actions , and paid the remaining amounts in 2012 .
note 3 2013 earnings per share the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per common share were as follows ( in millions ) : .
.
