segment results 2013 operating basis ( a ) ( b ) ( table continued from previous page ) year ended december 31 , operating earnings return on common equity 2013 goodwill ( c ) .
jpmorgan chase & co .
/ 2005 annual report 35 and are retained in corporate .
these retained expenses include parent company costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses ; adjustments to align certain corporate staff , technology and operations allocations with market prices ; and other one-time items not aligned with the business segments .
during 2005 , the firm refined cost allocation methodologies related to certain corporate functions , technology and operations expenses in order to improve transparency , consistency and accountability with regard to costs allocated across business segments .
prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new cost allocation methodologies .
capital allocation each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand- alone peer comparisons , economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements .
the amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity .
at the time of the merger , goodwill , as well as the associated capital , was allocated solely to corporate .
effective january 2006 , the firm expects to refine its methodology for allocating capital to the business segments to include any goodwill associated with line of business-directed acquisitions since the merger .
u.s .
gaap requires the allocation of goodwill to the business segments for impairment testing ( see critical accounting estimates used by the firm and note 15 on pages 81 2013 83 and 114 2013116 , respectively , of this annual report ) .
see the capital management section on page 56 of this annual report for a discussion of the equity framework .
credit reimbursement tss reimburses the ib for credit portfolio exposures the ib manages on behalf of clients the segments share .
at the time of the merger , the reimbursement methodology was revised to be based upon pre-tax earnings , net of the cost of capital related to those exposures .
prior to the merger , the credit reimbursement was based upon pre-tax earnings , plus the allocated capital associated with the shared clients .
tax-equivalent adjustments segment and firm results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis for segment reporting purposes .
refer to explanation and reconciliation of the firm 2019s non-gaap financial measures on page 31 of this annual report for additional details .
description of business segment reporting methodology results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business .
the management reporting process that derives these results allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies .
effective with the merger on july 1 , 2004 , several of the allocation methodologies were revised , as noted below .
as prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new methodologies , they are not comparable to the presentation of periods beginning with the third quarter of 2004 .
further , the firm continues to assess the assumptions , methodologies and reporting reclassifications used for segment reporting , and further refinements may be implemented in future periods .
revenue sharing when business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the firm 2019s clients , the participating business segments agree to share revenues from those transactions .
these revenue-sharing agreements were revised on the merger date to provide consistency across the lines of business .
funds transfer pricing funds transfer pricing ( 201cftp 201d ) is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to corporate .
the allocation process is unique to each business and considers the interest rate risk , liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of its stand- alone peers .
business segments may retain certain interest rate exposures , subject to management approval , that would be expected in the normal operation of a similar peer business .
in the third quarter of 2004 , ftp was revised to conform the policies of the combined firms .
expense allocation where business segments use services provided by support units within the firm , the costs of those support units are allocated to the business segments .
those expenses are allocated based upon their actual cost , or the lower of actual cost or market cost , as well as upon usage of the services provided .
effective with the third quarter of 2004 , the cost allocation methodologies of the heritage firms were aligned to provide consistency across the business segments .
in addition , expenses related to certain corporate functions , technology and operations ceased to be allocated to the business segments .
