net sales increased $ 29.9 million , or 6.3% ( 6.3 % ) , due to higher sales volume driven primarily by continuing improvement in the u.s .
home products market and the benefit from new product introductions and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases .
operating income increased $ 12.6 million , or 20.4% ( 20.4 % ) , due to higher net sales , the benefits from productivity improvements and leveraging sales on our existing fixed cost base .
security net sales increased $ 12.8 million , or 2.2% ( 2.2 % ) , due to higher sales volume and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases .
these benefits were partially offset by the impact of our exiting of two product lines in our commercial distribution channel .
operating income increased $ 5.8 million , or 8.7% ( 8.7 % ) , primarily due to the higher net sales , the benefits from productivity improvements , lower restructuring and other charges ( approximately $ 6 million ) relating to the completion in 2016 of a manufacturing facility relocation , favorable foreign exchange and the related cost savings resulting from the facility relocation .
corporate corporate expenses increased by $ 5.7 million mainly due to the impairment of a long lived asset and recognition of an actuarial gain versus an actuarial loss in 2016 and higher defined benefit plan income during 2017 compared to 2016 .
( in millions ) 2017 2016 .
in future periods the company may record , in the corporate segment , material expense or income associated with actuarial gains and losses arising from periodic remeasurement of our liabilities for defined benefit plans .
at a minimum the company will remeasure its defined benefit plan liabilities in the fourth quarter of each year .
remeasurements due to plan amendments and settlements may also occur in interim periods during the year .
remeasurement of these liabilities attributable to updating our liability discount rates and expected return on assets may , in particular , result in material income or expense recognition .
2016 compared to 2015 total fortune brands net sales net sales increased $ 405.5 million , or 9% ( 9 % ) .
the increase was due to higher sales volume primarily from the continuing improvement in u.s .
market conditions for home products , the benefit from the acquisitions in our cabinets and plumbing segments and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases and the effect of unfavorable foreign exchange .
these benefits were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange of approximately $ 27 million and higher sales rebates .
cost of products sold cost of products sold increased $ 182.8 million , or 6% ( 6 % ) , due to higher net sales , including the impact of the acquisitions in our cabinets and plumbing segments , partially offset by the benefit of productivity improvements. .
