risk and insurance brokerage services .
during 2009 we continued to see a soft market , which began in 2007 , in our retail brokerage product line .
in 2007 , we experienced a soft market in many business lines and in many geographic areas .
in a 2018 2018soft market , 2019 2019 premium rates flatten or decrease , along with commission revenues , due to increased competition for market share among insurance carriers or increased underwriting capacity .
changes in premiums have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry , as commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds .
prices fell throughout 2007 , with the greatest declines seen in large and middle-market accounts .
prices continued to decline during 2008 , although the rate of decline slowed toward the end of the year .
in our reinsurance brokerage product line , pricing overall during 2009 was also down , although during a portion of the year it was flat to up slightly .
additionally , beginning in late 2008 and continuing throughout 2009 , we faced difficult conditions as a result of unprecedented disruptions in the global economy , the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial markets .
continued volatility and further deterioration in the credit markets have reduced our customers 2019 demand for our retail brokerage and reinsurance brokerage products , which have negatively hurt our operational results .
in addition , overall capacity in the industry could decrease if a significant insurer either fails or withdraws from writing insurance coverages that we offer our clients .
this failure could reduce our revenues and profitability , since we would no longer have access to certain lines and types of insurance .
risk and insurance brokerage services generated approximately 83% ( 83 % ) of our consolidated total revenues in 2009 .
revenues are generated primarily through fees paid by clients , commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies , and investment income on funds held on behalf of clients .
our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of the timing of our clients 2019 policy renewals , the net effect of new and lost business , the timing of services provided to our clients , and the income we earn on investments , which is heavily influenced by short-term interest rates .
we operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with many retail insurance brokerage and agency firms , as well as with individual brokers , agents , and direct writers of insurance coverage .
specifically , we address the highly specialized product development and risk management needs of commercial enterprises , professional groups , insurance companies , governments , healthcare providers , and non-profit groups , among others ; provide affinity products for professional liability , life , disability income , and personal lines for individuals , associations , and businesses ; provide reinsurance services to insurance and reinsurance companies and other risk assumption entities by acting as brokers or intermediaries on all classes of reinsurance ; provide investment banking products and services , including mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory services , capital raising , contingent capital financing , insurance-linked securitizations and derivative applications ; provide managing underwriting to independent agents and brokers as well as corporate clients ; provide actuarial , loss prevention , and administrative services to businesses and consumers ; and manage captive insurance companies .
in november 2008 we expanded our product offerings through the merger with benfield , a leading independent reinsurance intermediary .
benfield products have been integrated with our existing reinsurance products in 2009 .
in february 2009 , we completed the sale of the u.s .
operations of cananwill , our premium finance business .
in june and july of 2009 , we entered into agreements with third parties with respect to our .
