the pnc financial services group , inc .
2013 form 10-k 155 of such other legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial position .
however , we cannot now determine whether or not any claims asserted against us or others to whom we may have indemnification obligations , whether in the proceedings or other matters described above or otherwise , will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any future reporting period , which will depend on , among other things , the amount of the loss resulting from the claim and the amount of income otherwise reported for the reporting period .
note 20 commitments in the normal course of business , we have various commitments outstanding , certain of which are not included on our consolidated balance sheet .
the following table presents our outstanding commitments to extend credit along with significant other commitments as of december 31 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively .
table 94 : commitments to extend credit and other commitments in millions december 31 december 31 .
commitments to extend credit , or net unfunded loan commitments , represent arrangements to lend funds or provide liquidity subject to specified contractual conditions .
these commitments generally have fixed expiration dates , may require payment of a fee , and generally contain termination clauses in the event the customer 2019s credit quality deteriorates .
net outstanding standby letters of credit we issue standby letters of credit and share in the risk of standby letters of credit issued by other financial institutions , in each case to support obligations of our customers to third parties , such as insurance requirements and the facilitation of transactions involving capital markets product execution .
approximately 91% ( 91 % ) of our net outstanding standby letters of credit were rated as pass at both december 31 , 2018 and 2017 , with the remainder rated as criticized .
an internal credit rating of pass indicates the expected risk of loss is currently low , while a rating of criticized indicates a higher degree of risk .
if the customer fails to meet its financial or performance obligation to the third party under the terms of the contract or there is a need to support a remarketing program , then upon a draw by a beneficiary , subject to the terms of the letter of credit , we would be obligated to make payment to them .
the standby letters of credit outstanding on december 31 , 2018 had terms ranging from less than one year to six years .
as of december 31 , 2018 , assets of $ 1.1 billion secured certain specifically identified standby letters of credit .
in addition , a portion of the remaining standby letters of credit issued on behalf of specific customers is also secured by collateral or guarantees that secure the customers 2019 other obligations to us .
the carrying amount of the liability for our obligations related to standby letters of credit and participations in standby letters of credit was $ .2 billion at december 31 , 2018 and is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. .
