south america .
approximately 26% ( 26 % ) of 2017 net sales were to international markets .
this segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers 2019 representatives , primarily to wholesalers , home centers , mass merchandisers and industrial distributors .
in aggregate , sales to the home depot and lowe 2019s comprised approximately 23% ( 23 % ) of net sales of the plumbing segment in 2017 .
this segment 2019s chief competitors include delta ( owned by masco ) , kohler , pfister ( owned by spectrum brands ) , american standard ( owned by lixil group ) , insinkerator ( owned by emerson electronic company ) and imported private-label brands .
doors .
our doors segment manufactures and sells fiberglass and steel entry door systems under the therma-tru brand and urethane millwork product lines under the fypon brand .
this segment benefits from the long-term trend away from traditional materials , such as wood , steel and aluminum , toward more energy-efficient and durable synthetic materials .
therma-tru products include fiberglass and steel residential entry door and patio door systems , primarily for sale in the u.s .
and canada .
this segment 2019s principal customers are home centers , millwork building products and wholesale distributors , and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market , as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets .
in aggregate , sales to the home depot and lowe 2019s comprised approximately 14% ( 14 % ) of net sales of the doors segment in 2017 .
this segment 2019s competitors include masonite , jeld-wen , plastpro and pella .
security .
our security segment 2019s products consist of locks , safety and security devices , and electronic security products manufactured , sourced and distributed primarily under the master lock brand and fire resistant safes , security containers and commercial cabinets manufactured , sourced and distributed under the sentrysafe brand .
this segment sells products principally in the u.s. , canada , europe , central america , japan and australia .
approximately 25% ( 25 % ) of 2017 net sales were to international markets .
this segment manufactures and sells key-controlled and combination padlocks , bicycle and cable locks , built-in locker locks , door hardware , automotive , trailer and towing locks , electronic access control solutions , and other specialty safety and security devices for consumer use to hardware , home center and other retail outlets .
in addition , the segment sells lock systems and fire resistant safes to locksmiths , industrial and institutional users , and original equipment manufacturers .
in aggregate , sales to the home depot and lowe 2019s comprised approximately 18% ( 18 % ) of the net sales of the security segment in 2017 .
master lock competes with abus , w.h .
brady , hampton , kwikset ( owned by spectrum brands ) , schlage ( owned by allegion ) , assa abloy and various imports , and sentrysafe competes with first alert , magnum , fortress , stack-on and fire king .
annual net sales for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows : ( in millions ) 2017 2016 2015 .
for additional financial information for each of our business segments , refer to note 18 , 201cinformation on business segments , 201d to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report on form other information raw materials .
the table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments .
these materials are available from a number of sources .
volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products. .
