62 general mills amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss unrealized losses from interest rate cash flow hedges recorded in aoci as of may 27 , 2012 , totaled $ 73.6 million after tax .
these deferred losses are primarily related to interest rate swaps that we entered into in contemplation of future borrowings and other financ- ing requirements and that are being reclassified into net interest over the lives of the hedged forecasted transac- tions .
unrealized losses from foreign currency cash flow hedges recorded in aoci as of may 27 , 2012 , were $ 1.7 million after-tax .
the net amount of pre-tax gains and losses in aoci as of may 27 , 2012 , that we expect to be reclassified into net earnings within the next 12 months is $ 14.0 million of expense .
credit-risk-related contingent features certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to maintain an investment grade credit rating on our debt from each of the major credit rat- ing agencies .
if our debt were to fall below investment grade , the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request full collateralization on derivative instru- ments in net liability positions .
the aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a liability position on may 27 , 2012 , was $ 19.9 million .
we have posted col- lateral of $ 4.3 million in the normal course of business associated with these contracts .
if the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements had been triggered on may 27 , 2012 , we would have been required to post an additional $ 15.6 million of collateral to counterparties .
concentrations of credit and counterparty credit risk during fiscal 2012 , wal-mart stores , inc .
and its affili- ates ( wal-mart ) accounted for 22 percent of our con- solidated net sales and 30 percent of our net sales in the u.s .
retail segment .
no other customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated net sales .
wal- mart also represented 6 percent of our net sales in the international segment and 7 percent of our net sales in the bakeries and foodservice segment .
as of may 27 , 2012 , wal-mart accounted for 26 percent of our u.s .
retail receivables , 5 percent of our international receiv- ables , and 9 percent of our bakeries and foodservice receivables .
the five largest customers in our u.s .
retail segment accounted for 54 percent of its fiscal 2012 net sales , the five largest customers in our international segment accounted for 26 percent of its fiscal 2012 net sales , and the five largest customers in our bakeries and foodservice segment accounted for 46 percent of its fis- cal 2012 net sales .
we enter into interest rate , foreign exchange , and cer- tain commodity and equity derivatives , primarily with a diversified group of highly rated counterparties .
we continually monitor our positions and the credit rat- ings of the counterparties involved and , by policy , limit the amount of credit exposure to any one party .
these transactions may expose us to potential losses due to the risk of nonperformance by these counterparties ; however , we have not incurred a material loss .
we also enter into commodity futures transactions through vari- ous regulated exchanges .
the amount of loss due to the credit risk of the coun- terparties , should the counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of the contracts , is $ 19.5 million against which we do not hold collateral .
under the terms of master swap agreements , some of our transactions require collateral or other security to support financial instruments subject to threshold levels of exposure and counterparty credit risk .
collateral assets are either cash or u.s .
treasury instruments and are held in a trust account that we may access if the counterparty defaults .
note 8 .
debt notes payable the components of notes payable and their respective weighted-average interest rates at the end of the periods were as follows: .
to ensure availability of funds , we maintain bank credit lines sufficient to cover our outstanding short- term borrowings .
commercial paper is a continuing source of short-term financing .
we have commercial paper programs available to us in the united states and europe .
in april 2012 , we entered into fee-paid commit- ted credit lines , consisting of a $ 1.0 billion facility sched- uled to expire in april 2015 and a $ 1.7 billion facility .
