of prior service cost or credits , and net actuarial gains or losses ) as part of non-operating income .
we adopted the requirements of asu no .
2017-07 on january 1 , 2018 using the retrospective transition method .
we expect the adoption of asu no .
2017-07 to result in an increase to consolidated operating profit of $ 471 million and $ 846 million for 2016 and 2017 , respectively , and a corresponding decrease in non-operating income for each year .
we do not expect any impact to our business segment operating profit , our consolidated net earnings , or cash flows as a result of adopting asu no .
2017-07 .
intangibles-goodwill and other in january 2017 , the fasb issued asu no .
2017-04 , intangibles-goodwill and other ( topic 350 ) , which eliminates the requirement to compare the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill ( commonly referred to as step 2 ) from the goodwill impairment test .
the new standard does not change how a goodwill impairment is identified .
wewill continue to perform our quantitative and qualitative goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount , but if we are required to recognize a goodwill impairment charge , under the new standard the amount of the charge will be calculated by subtracting the reporting unit 2019s fair value from its carrying amount .
under the prior standard , if we were required to recognize a goodwill impairment charge , step 2 required us to calculate the implied value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if that reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the amount of the charge was calculated by subtracting the reporting unit 2019s implied fair value of goodwill from its actual goodwill balance .
the new standard is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after december 15 , 2019 , with early adoption permitted , and should be applied prospectively from the date of adoption .
we elected to adopt the new standard for future goodwill impairment tests at the beginning of the third quarter of 2017 , because it significantly simplifies the evaluation of goodwill for impairment .
the impact of the new standard will depend on the outcomes of future goodwill impairment tests .
derivatives and hedging inaugust 2017 , the fasb issuedasu no .
2017-12derivatives and hedging ( topic 815 ) , which eliminates the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness .
the guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15 , 2018 , with early adoption permitted .
we do not expect a significant impact to our consolidated assets and liabilities , net earnings , or cash flows as a result of adopting this new standard .
we plan to adopt the new standard january 1 , 2019 .
leases in february 2016 , the fasb issuedasu no .
2016-02 , leases ( topic 842 ) , which requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements for both lessees and lessors .
the new standard is effective january 1 , 2019 for public companies , with early adoption permitted .
the new standard currently requires the application of a modified retrospective approach to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements .
we are continuing to evaluate the expected impact to our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures .
we plan to adopt the new standard effective january 1 , 2019 .
note 2 2013 earnings per share theweighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per common sharewere as follows ( in millions ) : .
we compute basic and diluted earnings per common share by dividing net earnings by the respectiveweighted average number of common shares outstanding for the periods presented .
our calculation of diluted earnings per common share also includes the dilutive effects for the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units ( rsus ) , performance stock units ( psus ) and exercise of outstanding stock options based on the treasury stock method .
there were no significant anti-dilutive equity awards for the years ended december 31 , 2017 , 2016 and 2015 .
note 3 2013 acquisitions and divestitures acquisition of sikorsky aircraft corporation on november 6 , 2015 , we completed the acquisition of sikorsky from united technologies corporation ( utc ) and certain of utc 2019s subsidiaries .
the purchase price of the acquisition was $ 9.0 billion , net of cash acquired .
as a result of the acquisition .
