hologic , inc .
notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) ( in thousands , except per share data ) purchased products that the company continues to sell as well as utilize to enhance and incorporate into the company 2019s existing products .
the intangible assets are expected to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives as the anticipated undiscounted cash flows are relatively consistent over the expected useful lives of the intangible assets .
the estimated $ 600 of purchase price allocated to in-process research and development projects related to aeg 2019s organic photoconductor coating and selenium product lines .
the deferred income tax liability relates to the tax effect of acquired identifiable intangible assets , and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory , land , building and related improvements as such amounts are not deductible for tax purposes .
the company had an existing relationship with aeg as a supplier of inventory items .
the supply agreement was entered into in prior years at arm 2019s length terms and conditions .
no minimum purchase requirements existed and the pricing was consistent with other vendor agreements .
acquisition of r2 technology , inc .
on july 13 , 2006 , the company completed the acquisition of r2 technology , inc .
( r2 ) pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger dated april 24 , 2006 .
the results of operations for r2 have been included in the company 2019s consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition as part of its mammography/breast care business segment .
r2 , previously located in santa clara , california , develops and sells computer-aided detection technology and products ( cad ) , an innovative technology that assists radiologists in the early detection of breast cancer .
the aggregate purchase price for r2 of approximately $ 220600 consisted of approximately 4400 shares of hologic common stock valued at $ 205500 , cash paid of $ 6900 , debt assumed of $ 5700 and approximately $ 2500 for acquisition related fees and expenses .
the company determined the fair value of the shares issued in connection with the acquisition in accordance with eitf issue no .
99-12 , determination of the measurement date for the market price of acquirer securities issued in a purchase business combination .
the components and allocation of the purchase price , consists of the following approximate amounts: .
the company finalized and completed a plan to restructure certain of r2 2019s historical activities .
as of the acquisition date the company recorded a liability of approximately $ 798 in accordance with eitf issue no .
95-3 , recognition of liabilities in connection with a purchase business combination , related to the termination of certain employees and loss related to the abandonment of certain lease space under this plan .
all amounts under this plan have been paid as of september 29 , 2007 .
the company reduced goodwill related to the r2 acquisition in the amount of approximately $ 400 during the year ended september 29 , 2007 .
the reduction was primarily related to a change in the preliminary valuation of certain assets and liabilities acquired based on information received during the year .
the final purchase price allocations were completed within one year of the .
