16 royal caribbean cruises ltd .
the following table details the growth in global weighted average berths and the global , north american and european cruise guests over the past five years : weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally ( 1 ) royal caribbean cruises ltd .
total berths global cruise guests ( 1 ) north american cruise guests ( 2 ) european cruise guests ( 3 ) .
( 1 ) source : our estimates of the number of global cruise guests and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally are based on a combi- nation of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including seatrade insider , cruise industry news and clia .
in addition , our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base .
( 2 ) source : clia based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights ( see number 1 above ) .
includes the united states of america and canada .
( 3 ) source : clia europe , formerly european cruise council , ( see number 2 above ) .
north america the majority of cruise guests are sourced from north america , which represented approximately 55.7% ( 55.7 % ) of global cruise guests in 2014 .
the compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately 3.3% ( 3.3 % ) from 2010 to 2014 .
europe cruise guests sourced from europe represented approximately 29.7% ( 29.7 % ) of global cruise guests in 2014 .
the compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately 4.2% ( 4.2 % ) from 2010 to 2014 .
asia/pacific in addition to expected industry growth in north america and europe , we expect the asia/pacific region to demonstrate an even higher growth rate in the near term , although it will continue to represent a relatively small sector compared to north america and europe .
based on industry data , cruise guests sourced from the asia/pacific region represented approximately 8.5% ( 8.5 % ) of global cruise guests in 2014 .
the compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately 16.4% ( 16.4 % ) from 2010 to 2014 .
competition we compete with a number of cruise lines .
our princi- pal competitors are carnival corporation & plc , which owns , among others , aida cruises , carnival cruise line , costa cruises , cunard line , holland america line , iberocruceros , p&o cruises and princess cruises ; disney cruise line ; msc cruises ; norwegian cruise line holdings ltd. , which owns norwegian cruise line , oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises .
cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers 2019 leisure time .
demand for such activi- ties is influenced by political and general economic conditions .
companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending .
operating strategies our principal operating strategies are to : 2022 protect the health , safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate , 2022 strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business , 2022 further strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues , 2022 increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally , 2022 focus on cost efficiency , manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquid- ity , with the overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value , 2022 strategically invest in our fleet through the upgrade and maintenance of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations across each brand , while pru- dently expanding our fleet with new state-of-the- art cruise ships , 2022 capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns , while continuing our focus on existing key markets , 2022 further enhance our technological capabilities to service customer preferences and expectations in an innovative manner , while supporting our strategic focus on profitability , and part i .
