notes to consolidated financial statements 2014 ( continued ) in connection with these discover related purchases , we have sold the contractual rights to future commissions on discover transactions to certain of our isos .
contractual rights sold totaled $ 7.6 million during the year ended may 31 , 2008 and $ 1.0 million during fiscal 2009 .
such sale proceeds are generally collected in installments over periods ranging from three to nine months .
during fiscal 2009 , we collected $ 4.4 million of such proceeds , which are included in the proceeds from sale of investment and contractual rights in our consolidated statement of cash flows .
we do not recognize gains on these sales of contractual rights at the time of sale .
proceeds are deferred and recognized as a reduction of the related commission expense .
during fiscal 2009 , we recognized $ 1.2 million of such deferred sales proceeds as other long-term liabilities .
other 2008 acquisitions during fiscal 2008 , we acquired a majority of the assets of euroenvios money transfer , s.a .
and euroenvios conecta , s.l. , which we collectively refer to as lfs spain .
lfs spain consisted of two privately- held corporations engaged in money transmittal and ancillary services from spain to settlement locations primarily in latin america .
the purpose of the acquisition was to further our strategy of expanding our customer base and market share by opening additional branch locations .
during fiscal 2008 , we acquired a series of money transfer branch locations in the united states .
the purpose of these acquisitions was to increase the market presence of our dolex-branded money transfer offering .
the following table summarizes the preliminary purchase price allocations of all these fiscal 2008 business acquisitions ( in thousands ) : .
the customer-related intangible assets have amortization periods of up to 14 years .
the contract-based intangible assets have amortization periods of 3 to 10 years .
these business acquisitions were not significant to our consolidated financial statements and accordingly , we have not provided pro forma information relating to these acquisitions .
in addition , during fiscal 2008 , we acquired a customer list and long-term merchant referral agreement in our canadian merchant services channel for $ 1.7 million .
the value assigned to the customer list of $ 0.1 million was expensed immediately .
the remaining value was assigned to the merchant referral agreement and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over its useful life of 10 years .
fiscal 2007 on july 24 , 2006 , we completed the purchase of a fifty-six percent ownership interest in the asia-pacific merchant acquiring business of the hongkong and shanghai banking corporation limited , or hsbc asia pacific .
this business provides card payment processing services to merchants in the asia-pacific region .
the .
