contingent consideration of up to $ 13.8 million .
the contingent consideration arrangement requires additional cash payments to the former equity holders of lyric upon the achievement of certain technological and product development milestones payable during the period from june 2011 through june 2016 .
the company estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement utilizing the income approach .
changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration subsequent to the acquisition date primarily driven by assumptions pertaining to the achievement of the defined milestones will be recognized in operating income in the period of the estimated fair value change .
as of october 29 , 2011 , no contingent payments have been made and the fair value of the contingent consideration was approximately $ 14.0 million .
the company allocated the purchase price to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition , resulting in the recognition of $ 12.2 million of ipr&d , $ 18.9 million of goodwill and $ 3.3 million of net deferred tax liabilities .
the goodwill recognized is attributable to future technologies that have yet to be determined as well as the assembled workforce of lyric .
future technologies do not meet the criteria for recognition separately from goodwill because they are a part of future development and growth of the business .
none of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes .
in addition , the company will be obligated to pay royalties to the former equity holders of lyric on revenue recognized from the sale of lyric products and licenses through the earlier of 20 years or the accrual of a maximum of $ 25 million .
royalty payments to lyric employees require post-acquisition services to be rendered and , as such , the company will record these amounts as compensation expense in the related periods .
as of october 29 , 2011 , no royalty payments have been made .
the company recognized $ 0.2 million of acquisition-related costs that were expensed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 .
these costs are included in operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income .
the company has not provided pro forma results of operations for integrant , audioasics and lyric herein as they were not material to the company on either an individual or an aggregate basis .
the company included the results of operations of each acquisition in its consolidated statement of income from the date of such acquisition .
7 .
deferred compensation plan investments investments in the analog devices , inc .
deferred compensation plan ( the deferred compensation plan ) are classified as trading .
the components of the investments as of october 29 , 2011 and october 30 , 2010 were as follows: .
the fair values of these investments are based on published market quotes on october 29 , 2011 and october 30 , 2010 , respectively .
adjustments to the fair value of , and income pertaining to , deferred compensation plan investments are recorded in operating expenses .
gross realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading securities were not material in fiscal 2011 , 2010 or 2009 .
the company has recorded a corresponding liability for amounts owed to the deferred compensation plan participants ( see note 10 ) .
these investments are specifically designated as available to the company solely for the purpose of paying benefits under the deferred compensation plan .
however , in the event the company became insolvent , the investments would be available to all unsecured general creditors .
8 .
other investments other investments consist of equity securities and other long-term investments .
investments are stated at fair value , which is based on market quotes or on a cost-basis , dependent on the nature of the investment , as appropriate .
adjustments to the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded as an increase or decrease analog devices , inc .
notes to consolidated financial statements 2014 ( continued ) .
