table of contents the estimated amortization expense at september 26 , 2015 for each of the five succeeding fiscal years was as follows: .
goodwill in accordance with asc 350 , intangibles 2014goodwill and other ( asc 350 ) , the company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value .
events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include , but are not limited to , current economic and market conditions , including a decline in market capitalization , a significant adverse change in legal factors , business climate , operational performance of the business or key personnel , and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator .
in performing the impairment test , the company utilizes the two-step approach prescribed under asc 350 .
the first step requires a comparison of the carrying value of each reporting unit to its estimated fair value .
to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for step 1 , the company primarily utilizes the income approach .
the income approach is based on a dcf analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate .
assumptions used in the dcf require significant judgment , including judgment about appropriate discount rates and terminal values , growth rates , and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows .
the forecasted cash flows are based on the company 2019s most recent budget and strategic plan and for years beyond this period , the company 2019s estimates are based on assumed growth rates expected as of the measurement date .
the company believes its assumptions are consistent with the plans and estimates used to manage the underlying businesses .
the discount rates used are intended to reflect the risks inherent in future cash flow projections and are based on estimates of the weighted-average cost of capital ( 201cwacc 201d ) of market participants relative to each respective reporting unit .
the market approach considers comparable market data based on multiples of revenue or earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortization ( 201cebitda 201d ) and is primarily used as a corroborative analysis to the results of the dcf analysis .
the company believes its assumptions used to determine the fair value of its reporting units are reasonable .
if different assumptions were used , particularly with respect to forecasted cash flows , terminal values , waccs , or market multiples , different estimates of fair value may result and there could be the potential that an impairment charge could result .
actual operating results and the related cash flows of the reporting units could differ from the estimated operating results and related cash flows .
if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value , the company is required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss , if any .
the second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit 2019s goodwill to its carrying value .
the implied fair value of goodwill is derived by performing a hypothetical purchase price allocation for each reporting unit as of the measurement date and allocating the reporting unit 2019s estimated fair value to its assets and liabilities .
the residual amount from performing this allocation represents the implied fair value of goodwill .
to the extent this amount is below the carrying value of goodwill , an impairment charge is recorded .
the company conducted its fiscal 2015 impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter , and as noted above used dcf and market approaches to estimate the fair value of its reporting units as of june 28 , 2015 , and ultimately used the fair value determined by the dcf approach in making its impairment test conclusions .
the company believes it used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue , cost projections , cash flows , market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date .
as a result of completing step 1 , all of the company's reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values , and as such , step 2 of the impairment test was not required .
for illustrative purposes , had the fair value of each of the reporting units that passed step 1 been lower than 10% ( 10 % ) , all of the reporting units would still have passed step 1 of the goodwill impairment test .
at september 26 , 2015 , the company believes that each reporting unit , with goodwill aggregating 2.81 billion , was not at risk of failing step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on the current forecasts .
the company conducted its fiscal 2014 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter , and as noted above used dcf and market approaches to estimate the fair value of its reporting units as of june 29 , 2014 , and ultimately used the fair value determined by the dcf approach in making its impairment test conclusions .
the company believes it used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue , cost projections , cash flows , market multiples and discount rates as source : hologic inc , 10-k , november 19 , 2015 powered by morningstar ae document research 2120 the information contained herein may not be copied , adapted or distributed and is not warranted to be accurate , complete or timely .
the user assumes all risks for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information , except to the extent such damages or losses cannot be limited or excluded by applicable law .
past financial performance is no guarantee of future results. .
