masco corporation notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) c .
acquisitions on march 9 , 2018 , we acquired substantially all of the net assets of the l.d .
kichler co .
( "kichler" ) , a leader in decorative residential and light commercial lighting products , ceiling fans and led lighting systems .
this business expands our product offerings to our customers .
the results of this acquisition for the period from the acquisition date are included in the consolidated financial statements and are reported in the decorative architectural products segment .
we recorded $ 346 million of net sales as a result of this acquisition during 2018 .
the purchase price , net of $ 2 million cash acquired , consisted of $ 549 million paid with cash on hand .
since the acquisition , we have revised the allocation of the purchase price to identifiable assets and liabilities based on analysis of information as of the acquisition date that has been made available through december 31 , 2018 .
the allocation will continue to be updated through the measurement period , if necessary .
the preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition of kichler is summarized in the following table , in millions. .
the goodwill acquired , which is generally tax deductible , is related primarily to the operational and financial synergies we expect to derive from combining kichler's operations into our business , as well as the assembled workforce .
the other intangible assets acquired consist of $ 59 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets , which is related to trademarks , and $ 181 million of definite-lived intangible assets .
the definite-lived intangible assets consist of $ 145 million related to customer relationships , which is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years , and $ 36 million of other definite-lived intangible assets , which is being amortized over a weighted average amortization period of three years .
in the fourth quarter of 2017 , we acquired mercury plastics , inc. , a plastics processor and manufacturer of water handling systems for appliance and faucet applications , for approximately $ 89 million in cash .
this business is included in the plumbing products segment .
this acquisition enhances our ability to develop faucet technology and provides continuity of supply of quality faucet components .
in connection with this acquisition , we recognized $ 38 million of goodwill , which is tax deductible , and is related primarily to the expected synergies from combining the operations into our business. .
