system and to use that system to conduct its electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit .
the terms of the franchises , with various expiration dates , typically range from 30 to 50 years .
natural gas distribution cerc corp . 2019s natural gas distribution business ( gas operations ) engages in regulated intrastate natural gas sales to , and natural gas transportation for , approximately 3.3 million residential , commercial and industrial customers in arkansas , louisiana , minnesota , mississippi , oklahoma and texas .
the largest metropolitan areas served in each state by gas operations are houston , texas ; minneapolis , minnesota ; little rock , arkansas ; shreveport , louisiana ; biloxi , mississippi ; and lawton , oklahoma .
in 2010 , approximately 42% ( 42 % ) of gas operations 2019 total throughput was to residential customers and approximately 58% ( 58 % ) was to commercial and industrial customers .
the table below reflects the number of natural gas distribution customers by state as of december 31 , 2010 : residential commercial/ industrial total customers .
gas operations also provides unregulated services consisting of heating , ventilating and air conditioning ( hvac ) equipment and appliance repair , and sales of hvac , hearth and water heating equipment in minnesota .
the demand for intrastate natural gas sales to residential customers and natural gas sales and transportation for commercial and industrial customers is seasonal .
in 2010 , approximately 71% ( 71 % ) of the total throughput of gas operations 2019 business occurred in the first and fourth quarters .
these patterns reflect the higher demand for natural gas for heating purposes during those periods .
supply and transportation .
in 2010 , gas operations purchased virtually all of its natural gas supply pursuant to contracts with remaining terms varying from a few months to four years .
major suppliers in 2010 included bp canada energy marketing corp .
( 25.6% ( 25.6 % ) of supply volumes ) , conocophillips company ( 8.3% ( 8.3 % ) ) , tenaska marketing ventures ( 6.8% ( 6.8 % ) ) , kinder morgan ( 6.3% ( 6.3 % ) ) , oneok energy marketing company ( 4.7% ( 4.7 % ) ) , and cargill , inc .
( 4.6% ( 4.6 % ) ) .
numerous other suppliers provided the remaining 43.7% ( 43.7 % ) of gas operations 2019 natural gas supply requirements .
gas operations transports its natural gas supplies through various intrastate and interstate pipelines , including those owned by our other subsidiaries , under contracts with remaining terms , including extensions , varying from one to twelve years .
gas operations anticipates that these gas supply and transportation contracts will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration .
gas operations actively engages in commodity price stabilization pursuant to annual gas supply plans presented to and/or filed with each of its state regulatory authorities .
these price stabilization activities include use of storage gas , contractually establishing fixed prices with our physical gas suppliers and utilizing financial derivative instruments to achieve a variety of pricing structures ( e.g. , fixed price , costless collars and caps ) .
its gas supply plans generally call for 25-50% ( 25-50 % ) of winter supplies to be hedged in some fashion .
generally , the regulations of the states in which gas operations operates allow it to pass through changes in the cost of natural gas , including gains and losses on financial derivatives associated with the index-priced physical supply , to its customers under purchased gas adjustment provisions in its tariffs .
depending upon the jurisdiction , the purchased gas adjustment factors are updated periodically , ranging from monthly to semi-annually , using estimated gas costs .
the changes in the cost of gas billed to customers are subject to review by the applicable regulatory bodies. .
