contractual obligations for future payments under existing debt and lease commitments and purchase obli- gations at december 31 , 2005 , were as follows : in millions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter .
( a ) the 2006 amount includes $ 2.4 billion for contracts made in the ordinary course of business to purchase pulpwood , logs and wood chips .
the majority of our other purchase obligations are take-or-pay or purchase commitments made in the ordinary course of business related to raw material purchases and energy contracts .
other significant items include purchase obligations related to contracted services .
transformation plan in july 2005 , the company announced a plan to focus its business portfolio on two key global platform businesses : uncoated papers ( including distribution ) and packaging .
the plan also focuses on improving shareholder return through mill realignments in those two businesses , additional cost improvements and exploring strategic options for other businesses , includ- ing possible sale or spin-off .
in connection with this process , in the third quarter of 2005 , the company completed the sale of its 50.5% ( 50.5 % ) interest in carter holt harvey limited .
other businesses currently under re- view include : 2022 the coated and supercalendered papers busi- ness , including the coated groundwood mill and associated assets in brazil , 2022 the beverage packaging business , including the pine bluff , arkansas mill , 2022 the kraft papers business , including the roa- noke rapids , north carolina mill , 2022 arizona chemical , 2022 the wood products business , and 2022 segments or potentially all of the company 2019s 6.5 million acres of u.s .
forestlands .
consistent with this evaluation process , the com- pany has distributed bid package information for some of these businesses .
the exact timing of this evaluation process will vary by business ; however , it is anticipated that decisions will be made for some of these businesses during 2006 .
while the exact use of any proceeds from potential future sales is dependent upon various factors affecting future cash flows , such as the amount of any proceeds received and changes in market conditions , input costs and capital spending , the company remains committed to using its free cash flow in 2006 to pay down debt , to return value to shareholders , and for se- lective high-return investments .
critical accounting policies the preparation of financial statements in con- formity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states requires international paper to estab- lish accounting policies and to make estimates that af- fect both the amounts and timing of the recording of assets , liabilities , revenues and expenses .
some of these estimates require judgments about matters that are in- herently uncertain .
accounting policies whose application may have a significant effect on the reported results of operations and financial position of international paper , and that can require judgments by management that affect their application , include sfas no .
5 , 201caccounting for contingencies , 201d sfas no .
144 , 201caccounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets , 201d sfas no .
142 , 201cgoodwill and other intangible assets , 201d sfas no .
87 , 201cemployers 2019 accounting for pensions , 201d sfas no .
106 , 201cemployers 2019 accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions , 201d as amended by sfas nos .
132 and 132r , 201cemployers 2019 disclosures about pension and other postretirement benefits , 201d and sfas no .
109 , 201caccounting for income taxes . 201d the following is a discussion of the impact of these accounting policies on international paper : contingent liabilities .
accruals for contingent li- abilities , including legal and environmental matters , are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset impaired and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated .
liabilities accrued for legal matters require judgments regarding projected outcomes and range of loss based on historical experience and recommendations of legal counsel .
additionally , as dis- cussed in note 10 of the notes to consolidated finan- cial statements in item 8 .
financial statements and supplementary data , reserves for projected future claims settlements relating to exterior siding and roofing prod- ucts previously manufactured by masonite require judgments regarding projections of future claims rates and amounts .
international paper utilizes an in- dependent third party consultant to assist in developing these estimates .
liabilities for environmental matters require evaluations of relevant environmental regu- lations and estimates of future remediation alternatives and costs .
international paper determines these esti- mates after a detailed evaluation of each site .
impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill .
an impairment of a long-lived asset exists when the asset 2019s carrying amount exceeds its fair value , and is recorded when the carrying amount is not recoverable through future operations .
a goodwill impairment exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value .
assessments of possible impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill are made when events or changes in cir- cumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset .
