hologic , inc .
notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) ( in thousands , except per share data ) the acquisition also provided for a one-year earn out of eur 1700 ( approximately $ 2000 usd ) which was payable in cash if aeg calendar year 2006 earnings , as defined , exceeded a pre-determined amount .
aeg 2019s 2006 earnings did not exceed such pre-determined amounts and no payment was made .
the components and allocation of the purchase price , consists of the following approximate amounts: .
the company implemented a plan to restructure certain of aeg 2019s historical activities .
the company originally recorded a liability of approximately $ 2100 in accordance with eitf issue no .
95-3 , recognition of liabilities in connection with a purchase business combination , related to the termination of certain employees under this plan .
upon completion of the plan in fiscal 2007 the company reduced this liability by approximately $ 241 with a corresponding reduction in goodwill .
all amounts have been paid as of september 29 , 2007 .
as part of the aeg acquisition the company acquired a minority interest in the equity securities of a private german company .
the company estimated the fair value of these securities to be approximately $ 1400 in its original purchase price allocation .
during the year ended september 29 , 2007 , the company sold these securities for proceeds of approximately $ 2150 .
the difference of approximately $ 750 between the preliminary fair value estimate and proceeds upon sale was recorded as a reduction of goodwill .
the final purchase price allocations were completed within one year of the acquisition and the adjustments did not have a material impact on the company 2019s financial position or results of operations .
there have been no other material changes to the purchase price allocation .
as part of the purchase price allocation , all intangible assets that were a part of the acquisition were identified and valued .
it was determined that only customer relationship , trade name , developed technology and know how and in-process research and development had separately identifiable values .
the fair value of these intangible assets was determined through the application of the income approach .
customer relationship represents aeg 2019s high dependency on a small number of large accounts .
aeg markets its products through distributors as well as directly to its own customers .
trade name represents aeg 2019s product names that the company intends to continue to use .
developed technology and know how represents currently marketable purchased products that the company continues to sell as well as utilize to enhance and incorporate into the company 2019s existing products .
the intangible assets are expected to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives as the anticipated undiscounted cash flows are relatively consistent over the expected useful lives of the intangible assets .
the estimated $ 600 of purchase price allocated to in-process research and development projects related to aeg 2019s organic photoconductor coating and selenium product lines .
the deferred income tax liability relates to the tax effect of acquired identifiable intangible assets , and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory , land , building and related improvements as such amounts are not deductible for tax purposes .
the company had an existing relationship with aeg as a supplier of inventory items .
the supply agreement was entered into in prior years at arm 2019s length terms and conditions .
no minimum purchase requirements existed and the pricing was consistent with other vendor agreements. .
