republic services , inc .
notes to consolidated financial statements 2014 ( continued ) we determine the discount rate used in the measurement of our obligations based on a model that matches the timing and amount of expected benefit payments to maturities of high quality bonds priced as of the plan measurement date .
when that timing does not correspond to a published high-quality bond rate , our model uses an expected yield curve to determine an appropriate current discount rate .
the yields on the bonds are used to derive a discount rate for the liability .
the term of our obligation , based on the expected retirement dates of our workforce , is approximately seven years .
in developing our expected rate of return assumption , we have evaluated the actual historical performance and long-term return projections of the plan assets , which give consideration to the asset mix and the anticipated timing of the plan outflows .
we employ a total return investment approach whereby a mix of equity and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long-term return of plan assets for what we consider a prudent level of risk .
the intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run .
risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities , plan funded status and our financial condition .
the investment portfolio contains a diversified blend of equity and fixed income investments .
furthermore , equity investments are diversified across u.s .
and non-u.s .
stocks as well as growth , value , and small and large capitalizations .
derivatives may be used to gain market exposure in an efficient and timely manner ; however , derivatives may not be used to leverage the portfolio beyond the market value of the underlying investments .
investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements , periodic asset and liability studies , and quarterly investment portfolio reviews .
the following table summarizes our target asset allocation for 2017 and actual asset allocation as of december 31 , 2017 and 2016 for our plan : target allocation actual allocation actual allocation .
for 2018 , the investment strategy for pension plan assets is to maintain a broadly diversified portfolio designed to achieve our target of an average long-term rate of return of 5.36% ( 5.36 % ) .
while we believe we can achieve a long- term average return of 5.36% ( 5.36 % ) , we cannot be certain that the portfolio will perform to our expectations .
assets are strategically allocated among debt and equity portfolios to achieve a diversification level that reduces fluctuations in investment returns .
asset allocation target ranges and strategies are reviewed periodically with the assistance of an independent external consulting firm. .
