before the purchase in november 2008 , the units will be reflected in diluted earnings per share calculations using the treasury stock method as defined by sfas no .
128 , earnings per share .
under this method , the number of shares of common stock used in calculating diluted earnings per share ( based on the settlement formula applied at the end of the reporting period ) is deemed to be increased by the excess , if any , of the number of shares that would be issued upon settlement of the purchase contracts less the number of shares that could be purchased by the company in the market at the average market price during the period using the proceeds to be received upon settlement .
therefore , dilution will occur for periods when the average market price of the company 2019s common stock for the reporting period is above $ 21.816 .
senior secured revolving credit facility in september 2005 , the company entered into a $ 250 million , three-year senior secured revolving credit facility .
as a result of the citadel investment in november 2007 , the facility was terminated and all unamortized debt issuance costs were expensed .
corporate debt covenants certain of the company 2019s corporate debt described above have terms which include customary financial covenants .
as of december 31 , 2007 , the company was in compliance with all such covenants .
early extinguishment of debt in 2006 , the company called the entire remaining $ 185.2 million principal amount of its 6% ( 6 % ) notes for redemption .
the company recorded a $ 0.7 million loss on early extinguishment of debt relating to the write-off of the unamortized debt offering costs .
the company did not have any early extinguishments of debt in 2005 .
other corporate debt the company also has multiple term loans from financial institutions .
these loans are collateralized by equipment and are included within other borrowings on the consolidated balance sheet .
see note 14 2014securities sold under agreement to repurchase and other borrowings .
future maturities of corporate debt scheduled principal payments of corporate debt as of december 31 , 2007 are as follows ( dollars in thousands ) : years ending december 31 .
.
