outlook budget our board of directors approved a budget of $ 3.5 billion for 2015 , including capital expenditures of $ 3.4 billion .
with the continued uncertainty in commodity pricing , we have taken decisive action to protect our optionality and position us to be a stronger e&p company in the long term .
our exploration spending has been reduced by more than 50 percent while we continue to focus on our three u.s .
resource plays .
we are also prepared to exercise further flexibility in our spend levels as pricing and the macro environment warrant .
our budget is broken down by reportable segment in the table below .
( in millions ) 2015 budget percent of .
( a ) represents the net budget after factoring in reimbursements from the canadian federal and provincial government related to the quest ccs project .
north america e&p 2013 approximately $ 2.4 billion of our budget is allocated to our three core u.s .
resource plays .
more than $ 1.4 billion is earmarked for the eagle ford , where rig count is expected to drop from 18 in late 2014 to 10 by the end of the second quarter of 2015 .
included in eagle ford spending is approximately $ 1 billion for drilling and completions .
we plan to spend $ 760 million in the bakken in north dakota .
drilling activity will be reduced to two rigs by the end of the first quarter of 2015 , down from seven rigs at the end of 2014 .
bakken spending includes approximately $ 550 million for drilling , completions and recompletions .
spending of $ 226 million is targeted for the oklahoma resource basins , which will also be down to two rigs by the end of the first quarter of 2015 .
this includes spending of approximately $ 200 million for drilling and completions .
international e&p 2013 we plan to spend approximately $ 429 million on our international assets , primarily in e.g. , the u.k .
and the kurdistan region of iraq .
approximately $ 232 million will be spent on a targeted exploration program impacting both the north america e&p and the international e&p segments .
the program includes one operated gulf of mexico well , participation in a non-operated appraisal well at shenandoah in the gulf of mexico and seismic surveys in gabon and ethiopia .
oil sands mining 2013 we expect to spend $ 95 million for sustaining capital projects in the osm segment .
we hold a 20 percent outside-operated interest in the athabasca oil sands project .
the remainder of our budget consists of corporate and other and is expected to total approximately $ 79 million , of which $ 40 million represents capitalized interest on assets under construction .
for information about expected exploration and development activities more specific to individual assets , see item 1 .
business .
production volumes we forecast 2015 production available for sale from the combined north america e&p and international e&p segments , excluding libya , to be 370 to 390 net mboed and the osm segment to be 35 to 45 net mbbld of synthetic crude oil .
we expect our u.s .
resource plays to achieve production growth of approximately 20 percent in 2015 over 2014 .
in addition , we expect total production growth , excluding libya , of 5 to 7 percent year-over-year .
acquisitions and dispositions excluded from our budget are the impacts of acquisitions and dispositions not previously announced .
we continually evaluate ways to optimize our portfolio through acquisitions and divestitures .
in connection with our ongoing portfolio management , future decisions to dispose of assets could result in non-cash impairments in the period such decisions are made .
personnel in february 2015 , we announced a reduction in workforce impacting approximately 350-400 employees .
these reductions focus largely on u.s .
payroll employees , weighted toward above-the-field and support services personnel , though we will continue to analyze our staffing needs at all levels and in all locations .
affected employees will be eligible for severance benefits. .
