c o n s t e l l a t i o n b r a n d s , i n c .
baroness philippine de rothschild announced an agree- ment to maintain equal ownership of opus one .
opus one produces fine wines at its napa valley winery .
the acquisition of robert mondavi supports the com- pany 2019s strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall growth in the premium , super-premium and fine wine categories .
the company believes that the acquired robert mondavi brand names have strong brand recognition globally .
the vast majority of sales from these brands are generated in the united states .
the company is leveraging the robert mondavi brands in the united states through its selling , marketing and distribution infrastructure .
the company also intends to further expand distribution for the robert mondavi brands in europe through its constellation europe infrastructure .
the robert mondavi acquisition supports the com- pany 2019s strategy of growth and breadth across categories and geographies , and strengthens its competitive position in its core markets .
the robert mondavi acquisition provides the company with a greater presence in the growing premium , super-premium and fine wine sectors within the united states and the ability to capitalize on the broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets .
in particular , the company believes there are growth opportunities for premium , super-premium and fine wines in the united kingdom and other 201cnew world 201d wine markets .
total con- sideration paid in cash to the robert mondavi shareholders was $ 1030.7 million .
additionally , the company incurred direct acquisition costs of $ 12.0 million .
the purchase price was financed with borrowings under the company 2019s 2004 credit agreement ( as defined in note 9 ) .
in accordance with the purchase method of accounting , the acquired net assets are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition .
the purchase price was based primarily on the estimated future operating results of the robert mondavi business , including the factors described above , as well as an estimated benefit from operating cost synergies .
the results of operations of the robert mondavi busi- ness are reported in the constellation wines segment and have been included in the consolidated statements of income since the acquisition date .
the following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the robert mondavi acquisition at the date of acquisition , as adjusted for the final appraisal : ( in thousands ) .
the trademarks are not subject to amortization .
none of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes .
following the robert mondavi acquisition , the company sold certain of the acquired vineyard properties and related assets , investments accounted for under the equity method , and other winery properties and related assets , during the years ended february 28 , 2006 , and february 28 , 2005 .
the company realized net proceeds of $ 170.8 million from the sale of these assets during the year ended february 28 , 2006 .
amounts realized during the year ended february 28 , 2005 , were not material .
no gain or loss has been recognized upon the sale of these assets .
hardy acquisition 2013 on march 27 , 2003 , the company acquired control of brl hardy limited , now known as hardy wine company limited ( 201chardy 201d ) , and on april 9 , 2003 , the company completed its acquisition of all of hardy 2019s outstanding capital stock .
as a result of the acquisi- tion of hardy , the company also acquired the remaining 50% ( 50 % ) ownership of pacific wine partners llc ( 201cpwp 201d ) , the joint venture the company established with hardy in july 2001 .
the acquisition of hardy along with the remaining interest in pwp is referred to together as the 201chardy acquisition . 201d through this acquisition , the company acquired one of australia 2019s largest wine producers with interests in wineries and vineyards in most of australia 2019s major wine regions as well as new zealand and the united states and hardy 2019s marketing and sales operations in the united kingdom .
in october 2005 , pwp was merged into another subsidiary of the company .
total consideration paid in cash and class a common stock to the hardy shareholders was $ 1137.4 million .
additionally , the company recorded direct acquisition costs of $ 17.2 million .
the acquisition date for accounting pur- poses is march 27 , 2003 .
the company has recorded a $ 1.6 million reduction in the purchase price to reflect imputed interest between the accounting acquisition date and the final payment of consideration .
this charge is included as interest expense in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended february 29 , 2004 .
the cash portion of the purchase price paid to the hardy shareholders and optionholders ( $ 1060.2 million ) was financed with $ 660.2 million of borrowings under the company 2019s then existing credit agreement and $ 400.0 million of borrowings under the company 2019s then existing bridge loan agreement .
addi- tionally , the company issued 6577826 shares of the com- pany 2019s class a common stock , which were valued at $ 77.2 million based on the simple average of the closing market price of the company 2019s class a common stock beginning two days before and ending two days after april 4 , 2003 , the day the hardy shareholders elected the form of consid- eration they wished to receive .
the purchase price was based primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis that contemplated , among other things , the value of a broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets and a presence in the important australian winemaking regions .
the company and hardy have complementary businesses that share a common growth orientation and operating philosophy .
the hardy acquisition supports the company 2019s strategy of growth and breadth across categories .
