jpmorgan chase & co .
/ 2008 annual report 83 credit risk capital credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale business- es ( ib , cb , tss and am ) and consumer businesses ( rfs and cs ) .
credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpected credit losses , both from defaults and declines in the portfolio value due to credit deterioration , measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent with an 201caa 201d credit rating standard .
unexpected losses are losses in excess of those for which provisions for credit losses are maintained .
the capital methodology is based upon several principal drivers of credit risk : exposure at default ( or loan-equivalent amount ) , default likelihood , credit spreads , loss severity and portfolio correlation .
credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based upon product and other relevant risk segmentation .
actual segment level default and severity experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level consistent with an 201caa 201d credit rating standard .
statistical results for certain segments or portfolios are adjusted to ensure that capital is consistent with external bench- marks , such as subordination levels on market transactions or capital held at representative monoline competitors , where appropriate .
market risk capital the firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by adverse movements in market vari- ables , such as interest and foreign exchange rates , credit spreads , securities prices and commodities prices .
daily value-at-risk ( 201cvar 201d ) , biweekly stress-test results and other factors are used to determine appropriate capital levels .
the firm allocates market risk capital to each business segment according to a formula that weights that seg- ment 2019s var and stress-test exposures .
see market risk management on pages 111 2013116 of this annual report for more information about these market risk measures .
operational risk capital capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based capital allocation methodology which estimates opera- tional risk on a bottom-up basis .
the operational risk capital model is based upon actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses , with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the quality of the control environment or the use of risk-transfer prod- ucts .
the firm believes its model is consistent with the new basel ii framework .
private equity risk capital capital is allocated to privately and publicly held securities , third-party fund investments and commitments in the private equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with a decline in equity markets and related asset devaluations .
in addition to negative market fluctua- tions , potential losses in private equity investment portfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk .
the capital allocation for the private equity portfolio is based upon measurement of the loss experience suffered by the firm and other market participants over a prolonged period of adverse equity market conditions .
regulatory capital the board of governors of the federal reserve system ( the 201cfederal reserve 201d ) establishes capital requirements , including well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding company .
the office of the comptroller of the currency ( 201cocc 201d ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the firm 2019s national banks , including jpmorgan chase bank , n.a. , and chase bank usa , n.a .
the federal reserve granted the firm , for a period of 18 months fol- lowing the bear stearns merger , relief up to a certain specified amount and subject to certain conditions from the federal reserve 2019s risk-based capital and leverage requirements with respect to bear stearns 2019 risk-weighted assets and other exposures acquired .
the amount of such relief is subject to reduction by one-sixth each quarter subsequent to the merger and expires on october 1 , 2009 .
the occ granted jpmorgan chase bank , n.a .
similar relief from its risk-based capital and leverage requirements .
jpmorgan chase maintained a well-capitalized position , based upon tier 1 and total capital ratios at december 31 , 2008 and 2007 , as indicated in the tables below .
for more information , see note 30 on pages 212 2013213 of this annual report .
risk-based capital components and assets .
( a ) the fasb has been deliberating certain amendments to both sfas 140 and fin 46r that may impact the accounting for transactions that involve qspes and vies .
based on the provisions of the current proposal and the firm 2019s interpretation of the propos- al , the firm estimates that the impact of consolidation could be up to $ 70 billion of credit card receivables , $ 40 billion of assets related to firm-sponsored multi-seller conduits , and $ 50 billion of other loans ( including residential mortgages ) ; the decrease in the tier 1 capital ratio could be approximately 80 basis points .
the ulti- mate impact could differ significantly due to the fasb 2019s continuing deliberations on the final requirements of the rule and market conditions. .
