table of contents hologic , inc .
notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) ( all tabular amounts in thousands except per share data ) which the cytyc stockholders received a premium over the fair market value of their shares on such date and cash of $ 16.50 per share ( or approximately 35% ( 35 % ) of the merger consideration ) .
there were no preexisting relationships between the two companies .
cytyc , headquartered in marlborough , massachusetts , is a diversified diagnostic and medical device company that designs , develops , manufactures , and markets innovative and clinically effective diagnostics and surgical products .
cytyc products cover a range of cancer and women 2019s health applications , including cervical cancer screening , prenatal diagnostics , treatment of excessive menstrual bleeding and radiation treatment of early-stage breast cancer .
upon the close of the merger , cytyc shareholders received an aggregate of 132 million shares of hologic common stock and $ 2.1 billion in cash .
in connection with the close of the merger , the company entered into a credit agreement relating to a senior secured credit facility ( the 201ccredit agreement 201d ) with goldman sachs credit partners l.p .
and certain other lenders , in which the lenders committed to provide , in the aggregate , senior secured financing of up to approximately $ 2.55 billion to pay for the cash portion of the merger consideration , repayment of existing debt of cytyc , expenses relating to the merger and working capital following the completion of the merger .
as of the closing of the merger , the company borrowed $ 2.35 billion under this credit agreement .
see note 5 for further discussion .
the aggregate purchase price of approximately $ 6.16 billion included $ 2.1 million in cash ; 132 million shares of hologic common stock at an estimated fair value of $ 3.67 billion ; 16.5 million of fully vested stock options granted to cytyc employees in exchange for their vested cytyc stock options , with an estimated fair value of approximately $ 241.4 million ; the fair value of cytyc 2019s outstanding convertible notes assumed in the merger of $ 125.0 million ; and approximately $ 24.2 million of direct acquisition costs .
there were no potential contingent consideration arrangements payable to the former cytyc shareholders in connection with this transaction .
the company measured the fair value of the 132 million shares of the company common stock issued as consideration in connection with the merger under eitf 99-12 .
the company determined the measurement date to be may 20 , 2007 , the date the transaction was announced , as the number of shares to be issued according to the exchange ratio was fixed without subsequent revision .
the company valued the securities based on the average market price a few days before and after the measurement date .
the weighted average stock price was determined to be $ 27.81 .
( i ) purchase price the purchase price is as follows: .
source : hologic inc , 10-k , november 24 , 2010 powered by morningstar ae document research 2120 the information contained herein may not be copied , adapted or distributed and is not warranted to be accurate , complete or timely .
the user assumes all risks for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information , except to the extent such damages or losses cannot be limited or excluded by applicable law .
past financial performance is no guarantee of future results. .
