the selection and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates have been discussed with our audit committee .
the following is a discussion of the more significant assumptions , estimates , accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements : 2022 revenue recognition - we recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists , delivery of product has occurred , the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured .
for our company , this means that revenue is recognized when title and risk of loss is transferred to our customers .
title transfers to our customers upon shipment or upon receipt at the customer's location as determined by the sales terms for each transaction .
the company estimates the cost of sales returns based on historical experience , and these estimates are normally immaterial .
2022 goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets valuation - we test goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if events occur that would warrant such review .
we perform our annual impairment analysis in the first quarter of each year .
while the company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment for both goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets to determine if it is more likely than not that an impairment exists , the company elects to perform the quantitative assessment for our annual impairment analysis .
the impairment analysis involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit or non-amortizable intangible asset to the carrying value .
if the carrying value exceeds the fair value , goodwill or a non-amortizable intangible asset is considered impaired .
to determine the fair value of goodwill , we primarily use a discounted cash flow model , supported by the market approach using earnings multiples of comparable global and local companies within the tobacco industry .
at december 31 , 2015 , the carrying value of our goodwill was $ 7.4 billion , which is related to ten reporting units , each of which is comprised of a group of markets with similar economic characteristics .
the estimated fair value of our ten reporting units exceeded the carrying value as of december 31 , 2015 .
to determine the fair value of non-amortizable intangible assets , we primarily use a discounted cash flow model applying the relief-from-royalty method .
we concluded that the fair value of our non-amortizable intangible assets exceeded the carrying value , and any reasonable movement in the assumptions would not result in an impairment .
these discounted cash flow models include management assumptions relevant for forecasting operating cash flows , which are subject to changes in business conditions , such as volumes and prices , costs to produce , discount rates and estimated capital needs .
management considers historical experience and all available information at the time the fair values are estimated , and we believe these assumptions are consistent with the assumptions a hypothetical marketplace participant would use .
since the march 28 , 2008 , spin-off from altria , we have not recorded a charge to earnings for an impairment of goodwill or non-amortizable intangible assets .
2022 marketing and advertising costs - we incur certain costs to support our products through programs which include advertising , marketing , consumer engagement and trade promotions .
the costs of our advertising and marketing programs are expensed in accordance with u.s .
gaap .
recognition of the cost related to our consumer engagement and trade promotion programs contain uncertainties due to the judgment required in estimating the potential performance and compliance for each program .
for volume-based incentives provided to customers , management continually assesses and estimates , by customer , the likelihood of the customer achieving the specified targets and records the reduction of revenue as the sales are made .
for other trade promotions , management relies on estimated utilization rates that have been developed from historical experience .
changes in the assumptions used in estimating the cost of any individual marketing program would not result in a material change in our financial position , results of operations or operating cash flows .
we have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to estimate our marketing programs during the past three years .
2022 employee benefit plans - as discussed in item 8 , note 13 .
benefit plans to our consolidated financial statements , we provide a range of benefits to our employees and retired employees , including pensions , postretirement health care and postemployment benefits ( primarily severance ) .
we record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by u.s .
gaap .
these calculations include various actuarial assumptions , such as discount rates , assumed rates of return on plan assets , compensation increases , mortality , turnover rates and health care cost trend rates .
we review actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so .
as permitted by u.s .
gaap , any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods .
we believe that the assumptions utilized in calculating our obligations under these plans are reasonable based upon our historical experience and advice from our actuaries .
weighted-average discount rate assumptions for pensions and postretirement plans are as follows: .
we anticipate that assumption changes , coupled with decreased amortization of deferred losses , will decrease 2016 pre-tax u.s .
and non- u.s .
pension and postretirement expense to approximately $ 209 million as compared with approximately $ 240 million in 2015 , excluding .
