of exiting a business in japan , economic weakness in asia and political unrest in thailand , partially offset by growth in new zealand and certain emerging markets .
reinsurance commissions , fees and other revenue increased 48% ( 48 % ) , due mainly to the benfield merger , partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation .
organic revenue is even with 2008 , as growth in domestic treaty business and slightly higher pricing was offset by greater client retention , and declines in investment banking and facultative placements .
operating income operating income increased $ 54 million or 6% ( 6 % ) from 2008 to $ 900 million in 2009 .
in 2009 , operating income margins in this segment were 14.3% ( 14.3 % ) , up 60 basis points from 13.7% ( 13.7 % ) in 2008 .
contributing to increased operating income and margins were the merger with benfield , lower e&o costs due to insurance recoveries , a pension curtailment gain of $ 54 million in 2009 versus a curtailment loss of $ 6 million in 2008 , declines in anti-corruption and compliance initiative costs of $ 35 million , restructuring savings , and other cost savings initiatives .
these items were partially offset by an increase of $ 140 million in restructuring costs , $ 95 million of lower fiduciary investment income , benfield integration costs and higher amortization of intangible assets obtained in the merger , and unfavorable foreign currency translation .
consulting .
our consulting segment generated 17% ( 17 % ) of our consolidated total revenues in 2009 and provides a broad range of human capital consulting services , as follows : consulting services : 1 .
health and benefits advises clients about how to structure , fund , and administer employee benefit programs that attract , retain , and motivate employees .
benefits consulting include health and welfare , executive benefits , workforce strategies and productivity , absence management , benefits administration , data-driven health , compliance , employee commitment , investment advisory and elective benefits services .
2 .
retirement specializes in global actuarial services , defined contribution consulting , investment consulting , tax and erisa consulting , and pension administration .
3 .
compensation focuses on compensatory advisory/counsel including : compensation planning design , executive reward strategies , salary survey and benchmarking , market share studies and sales force effectiveness , with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries .
4 .
strategic human capital delivers advice to complex global organizations on talent , change and organizational effectiveness issues , including talent strategy and acquisition , executive on-boarding , performance management , leadership assessment and development , communication strategy , workforce training and change management .
outsourcing offers employment processing , performance improvement , benefits administration and other employment-related services .
beginning in late 2008 and continuing throughout 2009 , the disruption in the global credit markets and the deterioration of the financial markets has created significant uncertainty in the marketplace .
the prolonged economic downturn is adversely impacting our clients 2019 financial condition and the levels of business activities in the industries and geographies where we operate .
while we believe that the majority of our practices are well positioned to manage through this time , these challenges are reducing demand for some of our services and depressing the price of those services , which is having an adverse effect on our new business and results of operations. .
