as a result of our acquisition of third wave on july 24 , 2008 , we assumed certain operating leases , the most significant of which is related to their corporate facility in madison , wisconsin , which is effective through september 2014 .
future lease payments on these operating leases were approximately $ 5.8 million as of september 27 , 2008 .
additionally , we assumed several license agreements for certain patent rights .
these payments will be made through 2011 and future payments under these license agreements are approximately $ 7.0 million as of september 27 , 2008 .
contractual obligations .
the following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of september 27 , 2008: .
( 1 ) approximately $ 6.4 million of the purchase obligations relates to an exclusive distribution and service agreement in the united states under which we will sell and service a line of extremity mri systems .
pursuant to the terms of this contract , we have certain minimum inventory purchase obligations for the initial term of eighteen months .
thereafter the purchase obligations are subject to renegotiation in the event of any unforeseen changes in the market dynamics .
( 2 ) as a result of the merger with cytyc , we assumed on a consolidated basis certain non-cancelable supply contracts .
for reasons of quality assurance , sole source availability or cost effectiveness , certain key components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier .
to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability , long-term supply contracts have been executed with these suppliers .
in certain of these contracts , a minimum purchase commitment has been established .
( 3 ) as a result of the merger with cytyc , we assumed a private equity investment commitment with a limited liability partnership , which could be paid over the succeeding three years .
the amounts above do not include any amount that may be payable to biolucent and adiana for earn-outs .
we are working on several projects and we expect to continue to review and evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses , products or technologies , and strategic alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business .
subject to the risk factors set forth in part i , item 1a of this report and the general disclaimers set forth in our special note regarding forward-looking statements at the outset of this report , we believe that cash flow from operations and cash available from our amended credit agreement will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected operations over the next twelve months .
our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance and our ability to continue to meet financial covenants under our amended credit agreement .
we may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures , acquisitions or other investments , or to repay our convertible notes .
the holders of the convertible notes may require us to repurchase the notes on december 13 of 2013 , and on each of december 15 , 2017 , 2022 , 2027 and 2032 at a repurchase price equal to 100% ( 100 % ) of their accreted principal amount .
these capital requirements could be substantial .
our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced risk factors as elsewhere in this report .
these risks , trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long- term liquidity. .
