notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) note 6 2014income taxes ( continued ) a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes , with the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( 35% ( 35 % ) in 2005 , 2004 , and 2003 ) to income before provision for income taxes , is as follows ( in millions ) : .
during 2005 , the company reversed certain tax contingency reserves and recorded a corresponding benefit to income tax expense primarily as a result of a change in the estimated outcome of certain tax disputes .
additionally , during the fourth quarter of 2005 , the company recorded a benefit to tax expense to adjust its net deferred tax assets as a result of the company 2019s year-end review of its deferred tax accounts , the impact of which was not material to the current or prior periods 2019 results of operations .
the total benefit to income tax expense from the reversal of these tax contingency reserves and adjustments to net deferred tax assets was $ 67 million .
the company also recorded a $ 14 million credit to income tax expense resulting from a reduction of the valuation allowance .
the internal revenue service ( irs ) has completed its field audit of the company 2019s federal income tax returns for all years prior to 2002 and proposed certain adjustments .
certain of these adjustments are being contested through the irs appeals office .
substantially all irs audit issues for these years have been resolved .
in addition , the company is also subject to audits by state , local , and foreign tax authorities .
management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations .
however , the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty .
should any issues addressed in the company 2019s tax audits be resolved in a manner not consistent with management 2019s expectations , the company could be required to adjust its provision for income tax in the period such resolution occurs .
note 7 2014shareholders 2019 equity preferred stock the company has 5 million shares of authorized preferred stock , none of which is outstanding .
under the terms of the company 2019s restated articles of incorporation , the board of directors is authorized to determine or alter the rights , preferences , privileges and restrictions of the company 2019s authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock. .
