focusing on strategic shifts that have or will have a major effect on an entity 2019s operations and financial results .
in addition , the guidance permits companies to have continuing cash flows and significant continuing involvement with the disposed com- ponent .
we adopted the amendments to this guidance on january 1 , 2015 .
reclassification certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for compara- bility purposes .
2 .
acquisitions and divestitures for the year ended december 31 , 2015 , we paid cash for acqui- sitions , net of cash acquired , totaling $ 2.4 billion .
we used the net proceeds of our $ 2.0 billion of senior notes issued in august of 2015 and cash on hand to finance the acquisition of snl .
all other acquisitions were funded with cash flows from operations .
acquisitions completed during the year ended december 31 , 2015 by segment included : s&p capital iq and snl on september 1 , 2015 ( the 201cacquisition date 201d ) , we acquired snl financial lc ( 201csnl 201d ) for $ 2.225 billion in cash , subject to working capital adjustments .
snl 2019s results of operations have been included in our consolidated statements of income subsequent to the acquisition date .
snl is a global provider of news , data , and analytical tools to five sectors in the global economy : financial services , real estate , energy , media & communications , and metals & mining .
snl delivers infor- mation through its suite of web , mobile and direct data feed platforms that helps clients , including investment and com- mercial banks , investors , corporations , and regulators make decisions , improve efficiency , and manage risk .
acquisition-related expenses during the year ended december 31 , 2015 , the company incurred approximately $ 37 million of acquisition-related costs related to the acquisition of snl .
these expenses are included in selling and general expenses in our consolidated statements of income .
preliminary allocation of purchase price our acquisition of snl was accounted for using the purchase method .
under the purchase method , the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired is allocated to goodwill and other intangibles .
the goodwill recognized is largely attributable to anticipated operational synergies and growth opportunities as a result of the acquisition .
the intangible assets , excluding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles , will be amortized over their anticipated useful lives between 10 and 18 years which will be determined when we finalize our purchase price allocation .
the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes .
the following table presents the preliminary allocation of pur- chase price to the assets and liabilities of snl as a result of the acquisition .
( in millions ) .
the company has performed a preliminary valuation analysis of the fair market value of assets and liabilities of the snl financial business .
the final purchase price allocation will be determined when the company has completed the detailed valuations and necessary calculations .
the final allocation could differ materi- ally from the preliminary allocation .
the final allocation may include ( 1 ) changes in fair values of property , plant and equip- ment , ( 2 ) changes in allocations to intangible assets as well as goodwill and ( 3 ) other changes to assets and liabilities .
supplemental pro forma information supplemental infor- mation on an unaudited pro forma basis is presented below for the years ended december 31 , 2015 and 2014 as if the acquisi- tion of snl occurred on january 1 , 2014 .
the pro forma financial information is presented for comparative purposes only , based on estimates and assumptions , which the company believes to be reasonable but not necessarily indicative of the consolidated financial position or results of operations in future periods or the results that actually would have been realized had this acquisition been completed at the beginning of 2015 .
the unau- dited pro forma information includes intangible asset charges and incremental borrowing costs as a result of the acquisition , mcgraw hill financial 2015 annual report 55 .
