sysco corporation a0- a0form a010-k 3 part a0i item a01 a0business we estimate that our sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows: .
( 1 ) other includes cafeterias that are not stand-alone restaurants , bakeries , caterers , churches , civic and fraternal organizations , vending distributors , other distributors and international exports .
none of these types of customers , as a group , exceeded 5% ( 5 % ) of total sales in any of the years for which information is presented .
sources of supply we purchase from thousands of suppliers , both domestic and international , none of which individually accounts for more than 10% ( 10 % ) of our purchases .
these suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise , as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers .
we also provide specialty and seasonal products from small to mid-sized producers to meet a growing demand for locally sourced products .
our locally sourced products , including produce , meats , cheese and other products , help differentiate our customers 2019 offerings , satisfy demands for new products , and support local communities .
purchasing is generally carried out through both centrally developed purchasing programs , domestically and internationally , and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies .
we administer a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop , obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products .
the program covers the purchasing and marketing of branded merchandise , as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers , encompassing substantially all product lines .
some of our products are purchased internationally within global procurement centers in order to build strategic relationships with international suppliers and to optimize our supply chain network .
sysco 2019s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating in these consolidated programs and from other suppliers , although sysco brand products are only available to the operating companies through these consolidated programs .
we also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating costs and by lowering aggregate inventory levels , which reduces future facility expansion needs at our broadline operating companies , while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers .
working capital practices our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations , commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings .
see the discussion in item 7 201cmanagement 2019s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources 201d regarding our liquidity , financial position and sources and uses of funds .
we extend credit terms to our customers that can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each customer 2019s credit worthiness .
we monitor each customer 2019s account and will suspend shipments if necessary .
a majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when customer orders are placed .
we generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand .
the level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life , supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand .
we also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities .
we take advantage of suppliers 2019 cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly to 45 days or more .
corporate headquarters and shared services center our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies and our shared services center performs support services for employees , suppliers and customers .
members of these groups possess experience and expertise in , among other areas , customer and vendor contract administration , accounting and finance , treasury , legal , information technology , payroll and employee benefits , risk management and insurance , sales and marketing , merchandising , inbound logistics , human resources , strategy and tax compliance services .
the corporate office also makes available supply chain expertise , such as in warehousing and distribution services , which provide assistance in operational best practices , including space utilization , energy conservation , fleet management and work flow. .
