to , rather than as a substitute for , cash provided by operating activities .
the following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities ( gaap measure ) to free cash flow ( non-gaap measure ) : .
2016 outlook f0b7 safety 2013 operating a safe railroad benefits all our constituents : our employees , customers , shareholders and the communities we serve .
we will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety , utilizing technology , risk assessment , quality control , training and employee engagement , and targeted capital investments .
we will continue using and expanding the deployment of total safety culture and courage to care throughout our operations , which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety .
we will continue our efforts to increase detection of rail defects ; improve or close crossings ; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs ( including risk assessment strategies ) , industry programs and local community activities across our network .
f0b7 network operations 2013 in 2016 , we will continue to align resources with customer demand , continue to improve network performance , and maintain our surge capability .
f0b7 fuel prices 2013 with the dramatic drop in fuel prices during 2015 , fuel price projections continue to be uncertain in the current environment .
we again could see volatile fuel prices during the year , as they are sensitive to global and u.s .
domestic demand , refining capacity , geopolitical events , weather conditions and other factors .
as prices fluctuate , there will be a timing impact on earnings , as our fuel surcharge programs trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months .
continuing lower fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could increase demand for various consumer products that we transport .
alternatively , lower fuel prices will likely have a negative impact on other commodities such as coal , frac sand and crude oil shipments .
f0b7 capital plan 2013 in 2016 , we expect our capital plan to be approximately $ 3.75 billion , including expenditures for ptc , 230 locomotives and 450 freight cars .
the capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments .
( see further discussion in this item 7 under liquidity and capital resources 2013 capital plan. ) f0b7 financial expectations 2013 economic conditions in many of our market sectors continue to drive uncertainty with respect to our volume levels .
we expect volumes to be down slightly in 2016 compared to 2015 , but will depend on the overall economy and market conditions .
the strong u.s .
dollar and historic low commodity prices could also drive continued volatility .
one of the biggest uncertainties is the outlook for energy markets , which will bring both challenges and opportunities .
in the current environment , we expect continued margin improvement driven by continued pricing opportunities , ongoing productivity initiatives , and the ability to leverage our resources and strengthen our franchise .
over the longer term , we expect the overall u.s .
economy to continue to improve at a modest pace , with some markets outperforming others. .
