the estimated acquisition-date fair values of major classes of assets acquired and liabilities assumed , including a reconciliation to the total purchase consideration , are as follows ( in thousands ) : .
goodwill of $ 203.8 million arising from the acquisition , included in the asia-pacific segment , was attributable to expected growth opportunities in australia and new zealand , as well as growth opportunities and operating synergies in integrated payments in our existing asia-pacific and north america markets .
goodwill associated with this acquisition is not deductible for income tax purposes .
the customer-related intangible assets have an estimated amortization period of 15 years .
the acquired technology has an estimated amortization period of 15 years .
the trade name has an estimated amortization period of 5 years .
note 3 2014 settlement processing assets and obligations funds settlement refers to the process of transferring funds for sales and credits between card issuers and merchants .
for transactions processed on our systems , we use our internal network to provide funding instructions to financial institutions that in turn fund the merchants .
we process funds settlement under two models , a sponsorship model and a direct membership model .
under the sponsorship model , we are designated as a merchant service provider by mastercard and an independent sales organization by visa , which means that member clearing banks ( 201cmember 201d ) sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the payment networks .
in certain markets , we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors .
these agreements allow us to route transactions under the members 2019 control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through mastercard and visa .
in this model , the standards of the payment networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds , and , instead , require that these funds be in the possession of the member until the merchant is funded .
under the direct membership model , we are members in various payment networks , allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship .
in this model , we route and clear transactions directly through the card brand 2019s network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement .
otherwise , we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model .
we are required to adhere to the standards of the payment networks in which we are direct members .
we maintain relationships with financial institutions , which may also serve as our member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets , to assist with funds settlement .
timing differences , interchange fees , merchant reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount received from the payment networks and the amount funded to the merchants .
these intermediary balances arising in our settlement process for direct merchants are reflected as settlement processing assets and obligations on our consolidated balance sheets .
settlement processing assets and obligations include the components outlined below : 2022 interchange reimbursement .
our receivable from merchants for the portion of the discount fee related to reimbursement of the interchange fee .
global payments inc .
| 2017 form 10-k annual report 2013 77 .
