purchase commitments the company has entered into various purchase agreements for minimum amounts of pulpwood processing and energy over periods ranging from one to twenty years at fixed prices .
total purchase commitments are as follows: .
these purchase agreements are not marked to market .
the company purchased $ 37.3 million , $ 29.4 million , and $ 14.5 million during the years ended december 31 , 2009 , 2008 and 2007 , respectively , under these purchase agreements .
litigation pca is a party to various legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business .
these legal actions cover a broad variety of claims spanning our entire business .
as of the date of this filing , the company believes it is not reasonably possible that the resolution of these legal actions will , individually or in the aggregate , have a material adverse effect on its financial position , results of operations , or cash flows .
environmental liabilities the potential costs for various environmental matters are uncertain due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible cleanup costs , the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations , and the timing , varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies .
from 1994 through 2009 , remediation costs at the company 2019s mills and corrugated plants totaled approximately $ 3.2 million .
as of december 31 , 2009 , the company maintained an environmental reserve of $ 9.1 million relating to on-site landfills ( see note 13 ) and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects .
liabilities recorded for environmental contingencies are estimates of the probable costs based upon available information and assumptions .
because of these uncertainties , pca 2019s estimates may change .
as of the date of this filing , the company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenditures and asset retirement obligations above the $ 9.1 million accrued as of december 31 , 2009 , will have a material impact on its financial condition , results of operations , or cash flows .
in connection with the sale to pca of its containerboard and corrugated products business , pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal and all environmental liabilities related to a closed landfill located near the company 2019s filer city mill .
13 .
asset retirement obligations asset retirement obligations consist primarily of landfill capping and closure and post-closure costs .
pca is legally required to perform capping and closure and post-closure care on the landfills at each of the company 2019s mills .
in accordance with asc 410 , 201c asset retirement and environmental obligations , 201d pca recognizes the fair value of these liabilities as an asset retirement obligation for each landfill and capitalizes packaging corporation of america notes to consolidated financial statements ( continued ) december 31 , 2009 .
