international networks international networks generated revenues of $ 1637 million during 2012 , which represented 37% ( 37 % ) of our total consolidated revenues .
our international networks segment principally consists of national and pan-regional television networks .
this segment generates revenue from operations in virtually every pay-television market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in london , singapore and miami .
discovery channel , animal planet and tlc lead the international networks 2019 portfolio of television networks .
international networks has one of the largest international distribution platforms of networks with as many as fourteen networks in more than 200 countries and territories around the world .
at december 31 , 2012 , international networks operated over 180 unique distribution feeds in over 40 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities .
international networks also has free-to-air networks in the u.k. , germany , italy and spain and continues to pursue international expansion .
our international networks segment owns and operates the following television networks which reached the following number of subscribers as of december 31 , 2012 : global networks international subscribers ( millions ) regional networks international subscribers ( millions ) .
on december 21 , 2012 , our international networks segment acquired 20% ( 20 % ) equity ownership interests in eurosport , a european sports satellite and cable network , and a portfolio of pay television networks from tf1 , a french media company , for $ 264 million , including transaction costs .
we have a call right that enables us to purchase a controlling interest in eurosport starting december 2014 and for one year thereafter .
if we exercise our call right , tf1 will have the right to put its remaining interest to us for one year thereafter .
the arrangement is intended to increase the growth of eurosport , which focuses on niche but regionally popular sports such as tennis , skiing , cycling and skating , and enhance our pay television offerings in france .
on december 28 , 2012 , we acquired switchover media , a group of five italian television channels with children's and entertainment programming .
( see note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. ) education education generated revenues of $ 105 million during 2012 , which represented 2% ( 2 % ) of our total consolidated revenues .
education is comprised of curriculum-based product and service offerings .
this segment generates revenues primarily from subscriptions charged to k-12 schools for access to an online suite of curriculum-based vod tools , professional development services , digital textbooks and , to a lesser extent , student assessments and publication of hardcopy curriculum-based content .
our education business also participates in global brand and content licensing and engages in partnerships with leading non-profits , corporations , foundations and trade associations .
content development our content development strategy is designed to increase viewership , maintain innovation and quality leadership , and provide value for our network distributors and advertising customers .
our content is sourced from a wide range of third-party producers , which include some of the world 2019s leading nonfiction production companies as well as independent producers .
our production arrangements fall into three categories : produced , coproduced and licensed .
substantially all produced content includes content that we engage third parties to develop and produce , while we retain editorial control and own most or all of the rights , in exchange for paying all development and production costs .
coproduced content refers to program rights that we have collaborated with third parties to finance and develop because at times world-wide rights are not available for acquisition or we save costs by collaborating with third parties .
licensed content is comprised of films or series that have been previously produced by third parties. .
