entergy corporation notes to consolidated financial statements ( a ) consists of pollution control revenue bonds and environmental revenue bonds , certain series of which are secured by non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds .
( b ) the bonds are subject to mandatory tender for purchase from the holders at 100% ( 100 % ) of the principal amount outstanding on september 1 , 2005 and can then be remarketed .
( c ) the bonds are subject to mandatory tender for purchase from the holders at 100% ( 100 % ) of the principal amount outstanding on september 1 , 2004 and can then be remarketed .
( d ) the bonds had a mandatory tender date of october 1 , 2003 .
entergy louisiana purchased the bonds from the holders , pursuant to the mandatory tender provision , and has not remarketed the bonds at this time .
entergy louisiana used a combination of cash on hand and short-term borrowing to buy-in the bonds .
( e ) on june 1 , 2002 , entergy louisiana remarketed $ 55 million st .
charles parish pollution control revenue refunding bonds due 2030 , resetting the interest rate to 4.9% ( 4.9 % ) through may 2005 .
( f ) the bonds are subject to mandatory tender for purchase from the holders at 100% ( 100 % ) of the principal amount outstanding on june 1 , 2005 and can then be remarketed .
( g ) pursuant to the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 , entergy's nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries have contracts with the doe for spent nuclear fuel disposal service .
the contracts include a one-time fee for generation prior to april 7 , 1983 .
entergy arkansas is the only entergy company that generated electric power with nuclear fuel prior to that date and includes the one-time fee , plus accrued interest , in long-term ( h ) the fair value excludes lease obligations , long-term doe obligations , and other long-term debt and includes debt due within one year .
it is determined using bid prices reported by dealer markets and by nationally recognized investment banking firms .
the annual long-term debt maturities ( excluding lease obligations ) for debt outstanding as of december 31 , 2003 , for the next five years are as follows: .
in november 2000 , entergy's non-utility nuclear business purchased the fitzpatrick and indian point 3 power plants in a seller-financed transaction .
entergy issued notes to nypa with seven annual installments of approximately $ 108 million commencing one year from the date of the closing , and eight annual installments of $ 20 million commencing eight years from the date of the closing .
these notes do not have a stated interest rate , but have an implicit interest rate of 4.8% ( 4.8 % ) .
in accordance with the purchase agreement with nypa , the purchase of indian point 2 resulted in entergy's non-utility nuclear business becoming liable to nypa for an additional $ 10 million per year for 10 years , beginning in september 2003 .
this liability was recorded upon the purchase of indian point 2 in september 2001 , and is included in the note payable to nypa balance above .
in july 2003 , a payment of $ 102 million was made prior to maturity on the note payable to nypa .
under a provision in a letter of credit supporting these notes , if certain of the domestic utility companies or system energy were to default on other indebtedness , entergy could be required to post collateral to support the letter of credit .
covenants in the entergy corporation notes require it to maintain a consolidated debt ratio of 65% ( 65 % ) or less of its total capitalization .
if entergy's debt ratio exceeds this limit , or if entergy or certain of the domestic utility companies default on other indebtedness or are in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings , an acceleration of the notes' maturity dates may occur. .
