the goldman sachs group , inc .
and subsidiaries management 2019s discussion and analysis sensitivity measures certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in var because var is not the most appropriate risk measure .
other sensitivity measures we use to analyze market risk are described below .
10% ( 10 % ) sensitivity measures .
the table below presents market risk for positions , accounted for at fair value , that are not included in var by asset category. .
in the table above : 2030 the market risk of these positions is determined by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues of a 10% ( 10 % ) decline in the value of these positions .
2030 equity positions relate to private and restricted public equity securities , including interests in funds that invest in corporate equities and real estate and interests in hedge funds .
2030 debt positions include interests in funds that invest in corporate mezzanine and senior debt instruments , loans backed by commercial and residential real estate , corporate bank loans and other corporate debt , including acquired portfolios of distressed loans .
2030 equity and debt funded positions are included in our consolidated statements of financial condition in financial instruments owned .
see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about cash instruments .
2030 these measures do not reflect the diversification effect across asset categories or across other market risk measures .
credit spread sensitivity on derivatives and financial liabilities .
var excludes the impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit spreads on derivatives , as well as changes in our own credit spreads ( debt valuation adjustment ) on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected .
the estimated sensitivity to a one basis point increase in credit spreads ( counterparty and our own ) on derivatives was a gain of $ 3 million and $ 2 million ( including hedges ) as of december 2017 and december 2016 , respectively .
in addition , the estimated sensitivity to a one basis point increase in our own credit spreads on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected was a gain of $ 35 million and $ 25 million as of december 2017 and december 2016 , respectively .
however , the actual net impact of a change in our own credit spreads is also affected by the liquidity , duration and convexity ( as the sensitivity is not linear to changes in yields ) of those financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected , as well as the relative performance of any hedges undertaken .
interest rate sensitivity .
loans receivable as of december 2017 and december 2016 were $ 65.93 billion and $ 49.67 billion , respectively , substantially all of which had floating interest rates .
as of december 2017 and december 2016 , the estimated sensitivity to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on such loans was $ 527 million and $ 405 million , respectively , of additional interest income over a twelve-month period , which does not take into account the potential impact of an increase in costs to fund such loans .
see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about loans receivable .
other market risk considerations as of december 2017 and december 2016 , we had commitments and held loans for which we have obtained credit loss protection from sumitomo mitsui financial group , inc .
see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about such lending commitments .
in addition , we make investments in securities that are accounted for as available-for-sale and included in financial instruments owned in the consolidated statements of financial condition .
see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information .
we also make investments accounted for under the equity method and we also make direct investments in real estate , both of which are included in other assets .
direct investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation .
see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about other assets .
goldman sachs 2017 form 10-k 93 .
